---
layout: default
title: "6.1 Customizing Checkout, Part 1"
---

# 6.1 Customizing Checkout, Part 1

As with everything in Spopify, the checkout process is quite customizable. Let's take a look at how to make changes.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Settings_.
3. Click _Checkout_.
4. Note that you can actually set up multiple checkout configurations and switch between them. You would add a new configuration by clicking _Duplicate_ next to the one that was created for you. Let's do that.
5. Now, click the elipsis button and click _Preview_ to see what the checkout form looks like.
6. Let's play around with the preview a bit and see how it works. Notice that for contact information, it currently asks for email address or mobile phone number. Next, we have two delivery options: ship or pickup in store, because we configured those options last week. If we click _Pickup in store_ we can see that it shows the store location for us to choose, along with the _Usually ready in_ statement that we selected last week. If we switch back to _Ship_ we can provide an address. Let's do that and note that as you type the address it provides autocomplete suggestions. With the address entered, we see our shipping method options, including our _Local delivery_ option and the other shipping methods that we configured last week. If we choose _Local delivery_, we can provide a mobile phone number and optional delivery instructions. Finally, we can provide a payment method with billing address, if different than shipping address. We also see an order summary and note that as we provide details, the shipping and estimated taxes change to reflect our address and the shipping option selected.
7. Let's return to look at what options we have, but we'll keep the preview open so that we can refer to it. We're going to customize the form in a moment, but first we'll review the settings on this screen.
8. We can select whether we want to allow people to provide a mobile number in place of an email address or not. Note that we would need to configure an SMS App in order to send updates to a mobile number, so let's click _Email_ for now.
9. Next, we can tell Shopify if it should provide a link for customers to track their order with the Shop app. The Shop app is a nice tool for you to remarket to customers who have purchased from you in the past and also market to new customers. It's also a nice tool for your customers to track their order status. We're going to talk about it more when we discuss _Channels_ in a few weeks. For now, just keep in mind that this option is giving Shopify a chance to market a mobile app that they own and that provides your customers with access to your own Shopify shop but also other Shopify shops.
10. You can also choose to require customers to log in before checkout, but this can increase cart abandonment (customers choosing not to checkout after making a product selection), so I encourage you to leave this unchecked.
11. Next we can choose how much customer information to require and how much to request optionally. Unless you have a strong reason to change the defaults, I recommend keeping them to reduce cart abandonment.
12. Next, you can choose whether you want to ask customers if they want to sign up for email or SMS marketing. By default, there will be an option for email marketing but it will be unchecked and the customer can check it. Choosing _Preselected_ means that the checkbox will be checked by default and the customer can deselect it. While this option will likely result in more opt-ins, it can also frustrate customers. Note that if you choose to invite customers to sign up for SMS marketing, there are legal policies that you must address. We'll talk about those in another tutorial this week. Also, note that you can customize the sign-up labels with the button here.
13. Next you can choose to prompt customers to tip, if this makes sense for your shop. If you choose that, you are able to provide 3 preset tip amounts (the customer can choose one or specify their own) and also can choose whether to first ask the customer if they want to tip and then show the options or just show the options, which is the default.
14. Next up, you can adjust settings related to address collection. The default is to prompt for a shipping address and use that as the billing address but give the customer a chance to provide a separate billing address if needed. If we switch back to the preview, we can see how that looks. If you find that you have a lot of fraudulent orders and don't accept gift orders, you might choose to require that the shipping address is the same as the billing address. Or, if you primarily accept gift orders, you can check the last box in this group to always prompt for both the billing and shipping addresses separately. The _Validate shipping address_ box allows you to prompt the customer with alternate suggestions if the address doesn't validate. We can see how that looks if we put an invalid address into the preview.
15. We'll talk about the _Abandoned checkout emails_ feature in a few weeks.
16. You can edit all of the checkout text tables using the _Edit checkout content_ button. Let's click _Save_ and then click _Edit checkout content_ to see what is available.
17. As explained, [checkout rules](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/checkout-settings/checkout-customization#add-cart-checkout-validation) allow you to determine how the checkout and cart respond to different customer scenarios. There are a few examples here. In order to enable rules, you would need to install an app that provides rules. We'll talk about apps in a few weeks but likely won't get into checkout rules. Just keep in mind that it is possible to require age verification and set other rules regarding the cart and checkout process and that the Shopify App Store is the place to go to enable these.

In the next tutorial, we'll explore how to customize the checkout form, thank you page, and order status pages.