---
layout: default
title: "6.2 Customizing Checkout, Part 2"
---

# 6.2 Customizing Checkout, Part 2

In this tutorial, we're picking up where we left off in the prior one. If you're not already on the Checkout settings page, go to the admin area for your shop, click _Settings_ and then _Checkout_.

1. In the last tutorial, we created a new checkout configuration based on the default one. Let's click _Customize_ next to the new, unpublished configuration.
2. We now see a special version of the theme editor allowing us to make adjustments to the various pages related to the checkout process. We are currently on the checkout screen, but if we click the page selector at the top, we can switch to other pages. We'll explore the others in a bit, but for now let's look at the settings on the left side.
3. Notice that we have a _Sections_ tab available, but this particular page doesn't support adding sections or blocks.
4. We can choose to add the logo to the form. Let's choose the _My_Hobbies_Shop_v3.png_ file that we uploaded last week.
5. Once that's selected, we can adjust the logo width to make it readable.
6. Next, we can adjust the alignment. Let's choose _Center_.
7. Next, we can control where the logo appears in the flow of the page, either above both columns, just above the checkout form, or just above the order summary. Let's place it above the order summary.
8. You can adjust the background colors and/or provide background images as well. _Background 1_ is behind the checkout form and _Background 2_ is behind the order summary and is also used for the customer account pages. Let's leave _Background 1_ as-is and change the _Background 2_ color to _EFECEC_, one of our brand colors.
9. We can set accent, button, and error colors and also determine the background color of form fields and cards. Feel free to play around with these settings.
10. Next we can change the fonts used on the checkout page.
11. _Checkout layout_ allows us to choose between the current one-page layout and a three-page layout. Let's take a look at the differences. Choose _Three-page checkout_ and then use the page selector to see what the three pages looks like.
12. Shopify recommends using the one-page layout as it is faster and, therefore, reduces cart abandonment, so let's switch back to the _One-page_ checkout layout.
13. Finally, we can turn off address autocompletion if desired. Generally, this feature saves your customers time and reduces address errors, so you probably want to keep it.
14. Click _Save_.
15. Notice that we can view each of these pages in _Desktop_, _Mobile_, and _Fullscreen_ views. Also take note of the undo and redo buttons.
16. Let's take a look at the other pages. Click the page selector and click _Thank you_.
17. The settings that we specified for the _Checkout_ page carry through to these other pages. Click the _Sections_ tab and notice that this page is composed of sections and blocks, but we can't change them. If you were using an app that provided a block to use on the _Thank you_ page, you could add it using the _Add app block_ button, though.
18. Note the _Email me with news and offers_ checkbox that we enabled in the last tutorial.
19. Use the page selector to look at the _Order status_ page.
20. Like the _Thank you_ page, we can see but not change the blocks, but we could add an app block if we had one.
21. Note the _Track order with shop_ button that we enabled in the last tutorial. Also note that the background color is _Background 2_ from the settings and the logo is carried over here but moved to the left side.
22. Use the page selector to look at the _Orders_ page.
23. There are no adjustments that we can make beyond the settings, but it's helpful to see what this page looks like. This uses the same background color and logo position as the _Order status_ page.
24. Finally, use the page selector to look at the _Profile_ page. Like with the _Orders_ page, there's nothing to change here but we can see that the background color and logo position mirror the _Order status_ and _Orders_ pages.
25. We've made our changes, so let's publish them. Click the _Publish_ button and then click _Publish_ on the modal that appears. We're taken back to the _Checkout_ settings page and can see that our new configuration is now published!

As you can see, there's quite a bit of flexibility. To learn more about the options, check out [this help document](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/checkout-settings/customize-checkout-configurations/checkout-editor).
