---
layout: default
title: "6.3 Customer Accounts"
---

# 6.3 Customer Accounts

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Settings_.
3. Click _Checkout_.
4. We have the option of displaying login links or not. Generally, allowing your customers to log in is probably a good idea, so that they can easily track orders and reorder products, and also so that they don't have to re-enter their shipping and billing information each time they make a purchase. If you don't want to provide login links, you can turn them off here.
5. With login links on, you have a choice of whether you want to link to the _New Customer Accounts_ login page or the _Classic Customer Accounts_ login page. There is a basic explanation of the differences here. If you click the information icon next to _New customer accounts_, you can see some considerations regarding which version of customer accounts you use. For our purposes, we'll use the recommended new customer accounts, but keep in mind that if the shop you are creating (whether for yourself or a client) requires features listed here, you would need to use classic customer accounts for now.
6. The _Customize_ button takes you to the _Checkout Settings_ page that we covered in the last two tutorials.
7. You can choose whether or not to enable self-service returns. Let's turn that on. We'll adjust the return rules in a moment.
8. You can also choose whether or not to allow customers to see and spend [store credit](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/customers/store-credit). This would allow you to offer credit in place of a refund and is a new feature in _early access_ but is available to all stores. [Shopify has a blog post about store credit](https://www.shopify.com/blog/store-credit) that you might want to check out. Let's turn that on as well.
9. Next you can see the URL that customers can use to access their accounts. The _Manage_ button takes you to a page that we can't use for a development store.
10. Note that all of the changes we've made on this page were automatically saved.
11. Click _return rules_.
12. The _Policies_ page appears, which we'll be covering in detail in another tutorial this week. For now, we're focusing on _Return rules_. Click _Manage_.
13. You can specify for how many days you will accept returns. Let's leave that at 30.
14. You can also specify the cost for return shipping. Let's change this to _Customer provides return shipping_.
15. You can also choose to charge a restocking fee, as a percentage of the price of returned items. Let's leave that unchecked.
16. You can specify that specific products, or all products in specific collections, are final sale, meaning that they can't be returned. For example, you could create a _Clearance_ collection and mark that as final sale, which would be a common policy. We won't do this for now.
17. To complete setting up the return rules, click _Turn on_.
