---
layout: default
title: "6.4 Payments"
nav_order: 4
---

# 6.4 Payments

Shopify offers a payment solution called [Shopify Payments](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/payments/shopify-payments) that is well integrated and practically automatic to set up; however, it also supports over 100 [third-party credit card payment providers](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/payments/third-party-providers) as well as PayPal. We're not going to spend too long looking at how to configure payment providers, but we will briefly review the process and then set up a test provider so that we can make our first test purchase next week!

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Settings_.
3. Click _Payments_.
4. We're going to set up a test payment provider in a moment, but let's first briefly look at the other options. You can read a little here about Shopify Payments and you can click _Learn more_ to see pricing and other information. The rates are quite competitive and Shopify Payments supports all of the major credit cards. One big benefit is that Shopify Payments includes [Shop Pay](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/payments/shop-pay), which allows customers to save their contact, payment, and shipping information between Shopify shops. Consequently, if your new customer has made a purchase through another Shopify shop in the past and chosen to have Shop Pay remember their details, their details can be recalled within your shop, saving them time and reducing the chance of them abandoning your checkout.
5. If you click _See all other providers_, you can see all of the other Shopify-approved third-party payment providers. Notice for each provider listed, you can see the methods supported by that provider. For example, Braintree supports Visa, Mastercard, American Express, Discover, JCB, Diner's Club, and Apple Pay, while Clover supports all of these except Diner's Club and also supports Google Pay and UnionPay. If you already have a provider, you can search for them. Or, if you are looking for a new provider you can compare the options. To select a provider, you click the provider name. Let's click _Braintree_ to see what more we can see.
6. At the top, we either see a statement describing the payment method or we see a link to learn more. Below that, for many providers, including this one, we see options related to connecting to the payment provider. You would need to have this information on hand from already having created an account with the provider.
7. Next, we see transaction fees that Shopify charges for the integration, which are in addition to the transaction fees that the provider and/or merchant bank charge. In this case, Shopify doesn't charge any transaction fees, but keep in mind that the provider/bank certainly does.
8. Next you can indicate which payment methods you want to enable for this payment provider. What you choose here depends both on your contract with the provider and/or bank as well as what makes sense for your business.
9. Additional options will appear below, including whether to support Shop Pay in addition to this payment provider, whether to enable 3D Secure to comply with European regulations, and other options that are specific to the provider.
10. You then have an option to turn on test mode so that you can ensure that everything is set up properly before turning off test mode and processing real transactions. You would click _Activate_ to enable the provider. Of course, we're not using this provider, so we won't do that.
11. Click back and click on _Airwallex_. Some payment providers have a screen that looks more like this. There is a _Contact provider_ button and an _Install_ button since the provider isn't installed by default.
12. Click back.
13. Let's click _(for testing) Bogus Gateway_, so that we can test making purchases next week.
14. The only payment method supported by the Bogus Gateway is _Bogus (for testing)_, so we can leave that selected.
15. Click _Activate_.
16. Now that the payment provider is activated, we see it listed at the top of the _Payments_ settings page. You can click _Manage_ to adjust settings, such as account credentials, supported payment methods, and test mode, as well as to deactivate the payment provider.
17. The _Additional payment methods_ section allows you to activate PayPal and other payment methods that aren't supported by the approved payment providers.
18. Next, we can choose when to [capture the payment](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/payments/payment-authorization). Payments are authorized when the order is placed, which confirms that the payment method will go through at that point, but they aren't necessarily captured at that point. Capturing a payment sends the credit card information to the customer’s bank for processing, and until the payment is captured you will not actually receive the money. Depending on various considerations (some legal), it may or may not make sense to capture the payment when the order is placed. For example, if your products are highly custom and require a lot of lead time, you might not capture until the order is fulfilled or until the supplies that you need to make the product are in your hands. Amazon.com authorizes when the order is placed but doesn't capture until the order is being prepared for shipment, ensuring that backordered items and preordered items aren't captured sometimes months before shipment. Generally, the _Automatically at checkout_ option is the right one for most shops, but if you need to wait until the order is fulfilled or some other point then one of the other two options might be best.
19. You can add manual payment methods as well. You can see some suggested manual payment methods here.
20. The final two sections deal with gift cards. You can [learn more about the gift card settings in the Shopify Help Center](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/gift-card-products/modify-gift-card-settings). We'll keep these as-is.
