---
layout: default
title: "6.6 Customer Privacy"
nav_order: 6
---

# 6.6 Customer Privacy

Shopify provides some tools that help you comply with privacy legislation. These tools are for your convenience, but remember that ultimately you are legally responsible for complying with laws and regulations.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Settings_.
3. Click _Customer privacy_.
4. At the top, we can see the status of our privacy policy and adjust it as needed.
5. Click _Cookie banner_.
6. This allows you to set up a banner that asks the customer for their permission to use various cookies. You can either use Shopify's automated settings, or you can specify which regions display the banner and what content is included in the banner. Click the _Edit_ links next to _Regions_ and _Content_ and take a look at the options.
7. We're going to use the automated settings, though, so turn on the _Use automated settings_ toggle.
8. Next you can see a preview of the banner and the _Cookie preferences_ and adjust the colors if desired.
9. Finally, you can specify where banner opens. We'll leave it as _Bottom center_.
10. Click _Save_ and go back to the _Customer privacy_ page.
11. Click _Data sales opt-out page_.
12. This page allows customers in specific regions to opt out of data sale or sharing. Click the _Edit_ links next to _Regions_ and _Content_ to see the options.
13. We'll use the automated settings here as well, though, so turn on the toggle for _Use automated settings_.
14. Next we can choose where to show the link to this page. Let's stick with the footer menu.
15. Click _Save_.
16. Click _View_ to see a preview of what this page looks like.
17. Return to the _Customer privacy_ page.
18. Next we have marketing settings. These are links to other settings pages. We've already set our settings related to email and SMS marketing in checkout.
19. The second option allows you to change the default behavior by requiring customers to confirm their subscription after opting in to marketing communications. This is a best practice and is also required by law in some countries. Let's toggle it on for both email and SMS, even though we aren't currently doing SMS marketing so the SMS checkbox isn't doing anything for us at the moment.
20. The _Data store location_ is information for you and it helps you ensure that you are complying with laws related to the storage of customer data. Shopify has a [help document about data storage locations](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/privacy-and-security/privacy/international-data-transfers/onward-transfers#data-hosting-locations) that you should check out.
