---
layout: default
title: "5.1 Store Details"
nav_order: 1
---

# 5.1 Store Details

There are several details regarding your store that should be completed in order to ensure the best experience for your customers. Let's explore some of those.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Online Store_ in the menu.
3. Click _Preferences_ in the menu.
4. The _Preferences_ allows you to specify the homepage title and meta description, upload a default social sharing image, set up connections to Google Analytics and Facebook Pixel for tracking customers and better managing advertising, restrict access to your store, and enable or disable spam protection.
5. To begin, let's provide the _Homepage title_, which will determine the title that is listed when your homepage appears in search results pages. Type _My Hobbies Shop: Shop, Smile, Repeat, Find Your Joy Inside_ in the _Homepage title_ box.
6. In the _Homepage meta description_ box, type _Discover unique handmade arts and crafts, along with stunning travel photography at My Hobbies Shop. Explore our collection of handcrafted treasures and breathtaking images that capture the beauty of global adventures. Perfect for art lovers and travelers alike!_
7. When people share links to your store pages on social media platforms, Shopify provides an image to represent the link. Usually this would be the product image, but if Shopify is unable to find a relevant image for a particular link, it uses the _Social sharing image_ provided here as a fallback. Click _Add image_ and upload the _My Hobbies Shop v3.png_ file that was provided in the tutorial resources. Note the suggested size.
8. We're not going to attach a Google Analytics account or Facebook Pixel, but keep in mind that this is where you would do those things.
9. Because our store is in development, we still want to restrict access to users with a password, so we won't mess with _Restrict store access_.
10. Note that if you were running a shop that should only be accessible to a select group of pre-approved customers, that can be accomplished using the [B2B customers](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/b2b/customers/adding-customers#allow-store-access-to-b2b-customers-only) feature.
11. If you find that you don't want to use spam protection for some or all forms, you can turn that off here. We're going to leave the feature turned on to protect our site.
12. Click _Save_.
13. Next, let's look at a few settings. Click _Settings_.
14. Let's look at the _General_ tab. Under _Store Defaults_, we can adjust our _Unit System_, _Default weight unit_, and _Time zone_. We're going to leave these as-is.
15. Next, we can add or adjust the prefix and suffix that is included in order numbers. This is especially useful if you need the order numbers to integrate with another system or to not clash with another system. For example, if you move to Shopify from another e-commerce platform and want to make sure that the order numbers in Shopify are unique, you might add a prefix such as _S_ or _1000_ to make them distinguishable. By default, only a hash mark is used as the prefix and there is no suffix. We'll leave these as-is.
16. We'll talk more about the _Order processing_ options in a few weeks.

Next up, we'll take a look at how to manage _Brand Assets_, which are used not only in your online shop but also in the _Shop_ app and other sales channels.
