---
layout: default
title: "5.2 Brand Assets"
---

# 5.2 Brand Assets

_[Brand Assets](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/promoting-marketing/managing-brand-assets)_ are assets that you upload once and that are then used differently across various themes, apps, and sales channels. We haven't talked much about apps and sales channels, but we'll get there in a few weeks. For now, let's look at how to upload _Brand Assets_.

1. We're picking up from where we left off in the last tutorial. If you're not still there, log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/], click _Settings_, and then scroll down on the _General_ tab to _Brand assets_.
2. Click _Manage_.
3. The first thing that we should do is add a default logo. Click _Add a default logo_, click _Add images_, and select the _My Hobbies Shop Square.png_ file provided in the tutorial resources, then select it and click _Done_.
4. Click _Add a square logo_ and select the same file and click _Done_.
5. Next, we need to specify colors that will be used in various channels. Click _Add a primary color_ and paste _3F5147_ into the color picker box.
6. Provide _EFECEC_ as the contrasting color.
7. Click _Add a secondary color_ and paste _2C332F_ into the box.
8. Again, provide _EFECEC_ as the contrasting color.
9. Under _Cover image_, click _Change_ and upload the _My Hobbies Shop cover image.jpg_ file provided in the tutorial resources.
10. Click _Add a slogan_ and type _Shop, Smile, Repeat, Find Your Joy Inside_.
11. Click _Add a short description_ and type _Discover unique handmade arts and crafts, along with stunning travel photography at My Hobbies Shop._
12. Note that you can add social links here as well, but we won't be doing that now.
13. Click _Save_.
