---
layout: default
title: "5.3 Shipping Rates"
nav_order: 3
---

# 5.3 Shipping Rates

Shopify provides an incredible amount of flexibility with regard to shipping rates. We're going to implement a simple set-up and this will provide you with a general overview of the options available, but I encourage you to review the following _Shopify Help Center_ documents as well:

- [Shipping Rates](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/fulfillment/setup/shipping-rates/index)
- [Shipping Zones](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/fulfillment/setup/shipping-rates/shipping-zones)
- [Shipping Profiles](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/fulfillment/setup/shipping-profiles)

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Settings_.
3. Click _Shipping and delivery_.
4. Shipping rates are divided into _profiles_. A profile allows you to set specific rates for certain products. The default profile, called _General Shipping Rates_ applies to all products not in another profile. Click _General_.
5. Shopify has set up some default rates for the _General Profile_, but we can make adjustments as needed. Let's look at what they have set up.
6. For order in the US, the shop offers free economy shipping for orders over $50. Click the elipsis next to this option and click _Edit Rate_.
7. You can see that _Economy (5 to 8 business days)_ is selected as the rate, a price of $0.00 is specified, and conditional pricing has been set up for orders over $50 with no upper limit. Notice that conditional pricing can also be specified based on item weight.
8. Click _Cancel_ and then edit the next rate.
9. This is economy shipping again, but this time conditional pricing has been specified using weight - this price applies for 0 to 5 pounds.
10. Click _Cancel_.
11. This shipping profile also includes international shipping, but currently international addresses aren't supported due to market limitations. We'll be talking about markets in another class, but for now let's look at these rates. In addition to the flat shipping rates that we saw for domestic shipping, Shopify also allows you to set up calculated shipping rates based on the carrier that you will be using. You can see that for international orders, the customer can choose to ship via USPS or DHL Express. When the customer checks out, Shopify will query these two carriers, providing the customer's address along with the order's weight and dimensions in order to retrieve the carrier's calculated rate and will display that to the customer. Typically, you would want to include an additional amount to cover handling. Edit the rate for DHL Express.
12. The handling fee can be a flat amount or a percentage. Type _5_ in the _Percentage_ box and click _Done_.
13. Repeat the process for USPS.
14. Click _Save_.
15. Wreaths aren't heavy, but they are bulky. Consequently, they are going to cost more to ship. Let's set up a shipping profile for wreaths.
16. Click the back button next to _General profile_.
17. Click _New profile_.
18. Enter _Wreaths_ in the _Profile name_ box.
19. Click _Add products_ and check the boxes for all of the wreaths in your store, then click _Done_.
20. Click _Add shipping zone_.
21. Type _Domestic_ in the _Zone name_ box.
22. Check _United States_ to apply this to all US states.
23. Click _Done_.
24. Click _Add rate_.
25. Select _Use carrier or app to calculate rates_ from the _Rate type_ drop-down and then choose _USPS_ from the next drop-down.
26. Check _First Class Mail_ from the _Shopify Shipping Services_ list.
27. Type _15_ in the _Percentage_ box.
28. This will use the item dimensions and weight to calculate all shipping for wreaths, adding 15% for handling.
29. Click _Done_.
30. We're only going to provide this single delivery method for these items, so we're done here. Click _Save_.
31. Click the back button next to the profile name to return to the _Shipping and delivery_ page.
32. Shopify allows you to set up complex shipping options, such as displaying expected delivery dates, setting rules for which warehouse receives an order (called _order routing_), and shipping to pickup points such as self-service lockers or parcel stores. We're not going to cover those, but I encourage you to learn more about them.
33. Shopify also allows you to offer local delivery and pickup in store. Let's look at each of those options. Click _Set up_ next to _Local delivery_.
34. Click the location.
35. Shopify's app ecosystem includes many apps that can help you with local deliveries. You can learn more by clicking the link. We won't cover that, but let's look at how to enable local deliveries and set the basic settings. Check _This location offers local delivery_.
36. You can indicate that you will deliver to specific zip codes or within a radius of your store. Choose _Set a delivery radius_.
37. By default, deliveries will only be available within your state or region and we'll leave the _Include neighboring states or regions_ box unchecked to keep this behavior.
38. Leave _Measure radius in_ set to _mi_ for miles.
39. You can set up multiple delivery zones, allowing you to charge more to deliver farther from your store. We'll just keep the one zone, but let's make some changes. Click the ellipsis and click _Edit rate_.
40. We'll leave it set at 6 miles and no minimum order amount, but we'll charge $10 for delivery.
41. What if we want to offer free delivery for especially large orders? We can do that! Click _Add conditional pricing_.
42. In the _Orders from $0.00 up to_ box, type _150_.
43. The _Delivery price_ for that range should still read _$10_.
44. A new row now appears that reads _Orders from $150.00 up to_. Leave the first box in that row blank to indicate _No limit_ and enter _0_ in the _Delivery price_ box to indicate that any order over $150 will have free local delivery.
45. The _Delivery information_ box should include any notes that we want to show regarding local delivery in the order confirmation notification and at checkout. Type _For in-stock items, most orders placed before 3 PM are delivered the same day. We will call to arrange a delivery time and instructions._
46. Click _Save_.
47. Next, let's configure _Pickup in store_. Return to the _Shipping and delivery_ page and click _Set up_ next to _Pickup in store_.
48. Click your location.
49. For the _Expected pickup date_, choose _Usually ready in 2 hours_.
50. If you had multiple locations, you could set rules regarding transferring items between locations for pickup, but that doesn't apply to us.
51. When an order is ready for pickup, the customer gets notified with the message in _Ready for pickup notification_. Type _Bring your confirmation email when you come to collect your order._
52. Click _Save_.
53. Return to _Shipping and delivery_.
54. _Delivery customizations_ depend on apps, so we'll save those for later.
55. _Saved packages_ helps with calculating shipping costs. It allows you to specify which packages you have available for shipping products. It works with the _Shopify Shipping_ feature, which allows you to purchase discounted shipping labels from the carriers. For many stores, you'll need multiple sizes of packages. We're going to leave the default but that would be too small for a wreath, so we'll add one that will accommodate a wreath. First, edit the existing box and enter _Default_ as the name and click _Save_.
56. Click _Add package_.
57. Note that if you get your packaging directly from a carrier, you can save yourself time by importing the details. Simply click _Carrier package_ and select the appropriate packages. We'll be using a custom box, though. In _Package name_ type _Wreath box_.
58. The _Package type_ should be _Box_. You can learn more about the other options on Shopify's [shipment packaging and weights help page](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/fulfillment/setup/packaging/packages-and-weights).
59. For _Length_, type _30_.
60. For _Width_, type _30_.
61. For _Height_, type _8_.
62. The weight is needed to add to the weight of the product when calculating the shipping weight. Type _0.25_.
63. Additional options include connecting to carrier accounts, customizing the packaging slip template, and even sending an email to a fulfillment service that ships the orders for you, but we won't cover those.
