---
layout: default
title: "5.4 Sales Tax"
nav_order: 4
---

# 5.4 Sales Tax

Shopify provides various options regarding the collection of sales tax. We're going to take a brief look at how to configure sales tax collection in Shopify, but you should also review the Shopify Help Center document regarding [Shopify's tax services](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/taxes/shopify-tax/choose-tax-service).

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Settings_.
3. Click _Taxes and duties_.
4. Taxes can be configured for each region to which you ship, so in order to configure taxes in a region, you must first add it to a shipping zone. Click the _next_ button and then click _United States_.
5. At the top, you can choose the tax service. Click _Manage_ to see the options.
6. Review the comparison of the three options. As noted, most merchants choose the _Shopify Tax_ option because it requires the least work on your part and the highest level of compliance. It also comes at a cost, though, so this is something you would want to consider when making your choice. Of course, we won't be making any actual sales, so this won't impact us.
7. The other two options are free but require a lot more work. _Basic tax_ automatically calculates taxes based on the general sales tax rates in each jurisdiction, but requires you to manage exceptions, such as products that are exempt from sales tax or have a specific tax rate. _Manual tax_ requires that you enter all tax rates yourself. Each of these provide basic reporting and do nothing to help you monitor to see when you might be liable for collecting taxes in additional jurisdictions. I recommend sticking with _Shopify Tax_, but each merchant must weigh the options themselves, so we'll take a brief look at how each of these work. Click __Activate Basic Tax_.
8. Under _Regions you’re collecting in_, click _+ Region_ and select _Maine_.
9. You can optionally enter your state sales tax ID, but you can also leave it blank for now. The _Advanced options_ allow you to indicate whether or not tax is collected on shipping.
10. Click _Collect Sales Tax_.
11. Because we don't have any sales, the _Access report_ link doesn't work.
12. You can specify tax rates that should be applied to shipping.
13. You can also specify specific tax rates for specific product collections, so if there is a particular product type that needs a specific tax rate, you'll need to add a collection for that product type.
14. So, that's how to configure _Basic Tax_. Return to the top and click _Manage_ next to _Tax service_.
15. Click _Activate Manual Tax_.
16. Check _I understand_ and click _Activate Manual Tax_.
17. Now you need to specify the tax rate that you are collecting in each state.
18. The _Tax overrides_ feature allows you to specify overrides for shipping taxes in specific states and product taxes in specific states and for specific collections.
19. _Manual Tax_ places the entire burden on you of monitoring for changes in tax rates, so this is the most burdensome option. _Basic Tax_ adjusts the general rates for you, but places the burden on you for monitoring changes in rate exceptions and for identifying jurisdictions where you are liable. Let's return to the top and click _Manage_ next to _Tax service_.
20. Click _Activate Shopify Tax_ and then click _Activate Shopify Tax_ again.
21. The options available here are similar to _Basic Tax_ but with some nice additions. For example, _Shipping Overrides_ and _Product Overrides_ box work as before, but Shopify Tax will automatically apply product category-specific tax rates in the appropriate jurisdictions unless you have specified an override for the product's collection. Consequently, it's important that all product have appropriate categories assigned, so here you can find a list of uncategorized products under _Tax rate management_.
22. Although it's still up to you to determine where you are collecting sales tax and provide your sales tax ID, Shopify Tax will give you insights to where you may be liable. It also provides reporting to help you with filing sales tax in those states where you have a liability.
23. Before we finish up, click the back button next to _United States_.
24. Below the list of regions, you'll find a link to the report showing collected sales tax, some apps that may help you with tax compliance, options regarding collecting duties and import taxes, as well as some global settings regarding collecting sales taxes.

As always, I encourage you to explore more about this topic within the [Shopify Help Center](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/taxes/).