---
layout: default
title: "1.2 Final Project"
nav_order: 2
---

# 1.2 Final Project

As a core part of this course, each student will create a Shopify store of their own choosing, applying the concepts learned in the tutorials. Your "client" for whom you are building this online shop could be a real or fictitious business or non-profit, as long as it lends itself well to marketing and distribution in an online shopping environment.

Within your final project, you will demonstrate each of the topics that you have learned throughout the course. During the semester, you will submit two short progress reports, one due on October 18 and the other due on November 15. You will also conduct a usability study of your client prototype. As part of your final submission, due December 19, you will write a minimum one-page explanation of how you met each of the requirements.

The project is intentionally flexible, but it must include the following:

- Multiple products, each with images and detailed product information
- At least one product should have variants for options such as size and color
- Multiple categories
- At least one collection
- Publish one of Shopify's free themes on the store
- Customized header and colors
- At least three pages (such as an "About Us" or "Our Story" page, "Frequently Asked Questions," and/or others) with images and content
- Either a side menu or drop-down menu for site navigation
- A footer menu
- Policies
- Some marketing features implemented, such as campaigns, automations, coupons, gift cards, or discounts
- Reviewed for search engine optimization
- Reviewed for conversion optimization

Your final project topic is due on September 27. Spend some time considering what shop to build as your final project. Sometime between now and then, email your idea to me at <nathaniel.laclaire@maine.edu>. I will respond with approval, suggestions, and/or questions before you should begin building the final project site. At that time I will also provide you with the login information for an empty Shopify store that you will use for your final project.
