---
layout: default
title: "1.3 How To Log Into Your My Hobbies Shop Shopify Store To Use For Tutorials"
nav_order: 3
---

# 1.3 How To Log Into Your "My Hobbies Shop" Shopify Store To Use For Tutorials

You should have received an email that looks like the one here. This is from Shopify and is used to create a _staff_ account that will be used to administer the Shopify trial store that you will use to follow along with the tutorials. A Shopify trial store is a free store with very few limitations, except that it cannot be used to make sales. These are a feature of Shopify's Partner Program, which enables Web developers, like us, to create stores for learning and testing, as well as to create stores that will eventually be transferred to an actual client and used to make sales.

You will see the URL for your My Hobbies Shop. You'll want to keep this URL handy to use throughout the course. If you go to the URL now, you will see a prompt for your store's password. This password doesn't control your staff access. Instead it protects your store from being viewed by anyone who hasn't been given the password, which is important to keep people from visiting your store before you are ready to launch. You would provide this store password to your client when you need them to review your work. We'll see later in the semester how you would change this, but for now you should have the store password in an email from me.

Back to the previous email, you'll also see a green button that reads _Create staff account_. Click that and follow the instructions to create an account. You should use a secure password here - do not use the store password! This staff account will have access to make any change to the store, so keep it safe!
