---
layout: default
title: "7.1 Test Orders"
nav_order: 2
---

# 7.1 Test Orders

We've finally reached the point where we can start submitting [test orders](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/checkout-settings/test-orders)! By placing a test order, you can make sure that your checkout process and settings for order processing, inventory, shipping, email notifications, and taxes are all correct. Using the _Bogus Gateway_ that we set up last week, Shopify makes it easy. You aren't charged for the test order and it can be done with the store still in development mode, as ours is. Note that it's possible to submit test orders using the test mode provided by real payment providers as well, but we aren't going to be covering that here. Shopify has instructions for [test orders in development stores](https://help.shopify.com/en/partners/dashboard/managing-stores/test-orders-in-dev-stores), in case you want to learn more. Let's try a test order with the Bogus Gateway!

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to <https://admin.shopify.com/>.
2. Click _Online Store_ and then _View Your Store_.
3. Add a few items for your shopping cart. Note that test transactions must cost the equivalent of at least $1 USD in any currency.
4. Open your shopping cart and review what you see. When you're ready, click _Check Out_.
5. For the first test order, use your own email address. This will allow you to see the emails that customers will receive throughout the order process. It's safe to do that for several tests, but Shopify recommends using email addresses ending in _@example.com_ for most test orders, as explained in the [test orders help document](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/checkout-settings/test-orders):

> Use an email address that ends with @example.com to place test orders. This domain is detected by Shopify's
> systems, is safe to use for test orders, won't trigger any spam detection, and will keep your inbox from being
> full. If you need to send test orders to your own email address as part of your testing, then make sure to send
> fewer than 100 test orders at a time to avoid any delivery issues with your inbox.

6. Choose _Ship_ as the delivery method and enter your own shipping information.
7. Choose the _Standard_ shipping option.
8. Under, _Payment_, ensure that the orange rectangle with the white B appears. This is the bogus gateway logo, signifying that the correct payment provider is active. The bogus gateway supports three test card numbers, each of which triggers a specific response:

- _1_ simulates a successful transaction
- _2_ simulates a failed transaction
- _3_ simulates an exception (this generates a message indicating that an error has occurred with the provider)

9. Enter _3_ as the card number.
10. Enter any date in the future as the _Expiration date_.
11. Enter _111_ or another 3-digit number as the _Security code_.
12. Enter _Bogus Gateway_ as the _Name on card_.
13. Leave _Use shipping address as billing address_ checked.
14. Click _Pay now_.
15. After a moment of processing, you should see a brief message on the checkout page that the payment couldn't be processed. Retry the order with a card number of _2_.
16. The same result should happen. Finally, retry with a card number of _1_.
17. You should see a confirmation screen. Look it over and make sure you are happy with it.
18. Next, check your email inbox. You should have an order confirmation email. If you also opted in to marketing emails, you should have a confirmation email about that as well. Read those over and confirm that they look okay. Notice that in Gmail, you should see Gmail's order summary at the top. Test the links in the order confirmation and confirm that you are satisfied with what comes up. The _View your order_ link should show that the order is confirmed. Until you complete the double-opt-in to marketing emails, you should still see an invitation to opt-in to marketing emails on the order confirmation.
19. Click the link in the marketing emails confirmation to complete the double-opt-in. Confirm that you are satisfied with what you see.
20. Now reload the order confirmation and confirm that the marketing opt-in disappears.

Congratulations, you've placed your first test order!

Shopify provides a [checklist for test orders](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/checkout-settings/test-orders#checklist), giving suggestions for things to test both when placing the order and afterward. Take a few minutes to place some additional orders, trying to check as many boxes in the _Creating a test order_ list as possible. We'll cover discount codes soon, so don't worry about those yet, and also don't worry about different payment methods since we can only use the _Bogus Gateway_. You should try these, though:

- Multiple shipping addresses in different tax zones, paying attention to how the shipping and tax are calculated
- Multiple delivery methods, including local delivery, and the free and paid shipping options
- At least one order should include a wreath and at least one should not include a wreath

Next, we'll look at how you, or the shop owner, will handle order fulfillment!
