---
layout: default
title: "7.2 Order Processing, part 1"
nav_order: 3
---

# 7.2 Order Processing, part 1

Now that you have a few orders in your shop, let's look at how you as the shop owner would process the orders. There is so much more information available regarding [managaging orders in Shopify's Help Center](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/fulfillment/managing-orders).

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to <https://admin.shopify.com/>.
2. Click _Orders_ and notice the number of orders needing attention appears next to the link.
3. The _Orders_ page, by default, lists all orders for all locations. If you have multiple locations, you can view orders for a single location using the drop-down at the top.
4. Below that, we see some basic analytics, which we're going to dig into more in another video. For now, note that you can click any of these to view more details.
5. Next we have the list of orders. At the far right, we have buttons to search orders, change the columns displayed, or adjust the sort order. You can also adjust the sort order by clicking a column heading. Currently, the list is sorted by date received, newest to oldest.
6. At the left, we have various views. We are currently viewing all orders, but let's instead view just the open orders (those that have work for us to do, such as processing the payment, fulfilling the order, or processing returns) by clicking _Open_.
7. Looking at the details in the list, we can quickly see that all of these are paid but in need of fulfillment. The _Paid_ [payment status](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/fulfillment/managing-orders/order-status#order-payment-status-desc) indicates that these payments have been captured, but if your shop was configured to capture manually, you might see _Authorized_ on some of these to indicate that they need to be captured. Additionally, if you had enabled manual payment methods or if your payment processor hadn't yet completed the payment (you might see this with PayPal, for example), you might see _Pending_ here. The [fulfillment status](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/fulfillment/managing-orders/order-status#fulfillment-status) tells us that these are unfulfilled, but you might see _Fulfilled_, _Partially Fulfilled_, _Scheduled_ to indicate a prepaid subscription, or _On Hold_ to indicate that the order is not yet ready to be fulfilled. Note that you can click the number of items for each order to view the list of items.
8. Let's click an order that is being shipped. We see the status again along with the order date and the sales channel at the top. We have buttons to refund the order, edit the order, print this order page or a packing slip, and a _More actions_ button that allows us to duplicate, cancel, or archive the order, view the customer-facing order status page, or other tasks. Click _View order status page_. We saw this page in the last tutorial as the customer.
9. Close the order status to return to the order page.
10. Click _Edit_.
11. This allows you to add and remove items, adjust quantities, and apply discounts. This is useful if the customer called and asked to add an item, or if you find that an item is out of stock. If an additional amount is due after your changes, you will have the option of sending an invoice to the customer.
12. Go back to the order page.
13. Click _Print > Print Packing Slip_. This uses the packing slip template that we looked at a few weeks ago to generate a PDF that is ready to print.
14. Return to the order page. Next we see each _fulfillment_ that is part of the order. Since we have a single location, there is only one. The ellipsis button gives us options to change the location, hold fulfillment, or split fulfillment. Click _Hold Fulfillment_. Here you can hold all or part of the order for any reason, such as those shown. Check an item and choose _Inventory out of stock_ and click _Split_.
15. We now see two fulfillments, one is on hold because inventory is out of stock and the other is awaiting fulfillment.
16. The _Split Fulfillment_ option is another way to break the order into multiple fulfillments, which is useful if you need to ship the items separately.
17. Before we actually fulfill the order, let's look at a few other details. The customer information is shown, and you can click the customer's name to view the customer's profile, including the customer's other orders.
18. The ellipsis button in the _Customer_ tile allows you to edit the customer's information.
19. Above you also have instructions from the customer, which you can edit.
20. Scrolling down, you can see information about the payment, shopping, and taxes, a _Conversion summary_ that gives you an idea of how long it took for the customer to be converted from a prospect to making a purchase, and a fraud analysis.
21. Scrolling down more, we can see the history of the order, including the failed payments, and can even add comments that will be visible only to staff.
22. Scroll back up and click _Create shipping label_.
23. This is where you can purchase postage from _Shopify Shipping_. We're not going to do that, obviously, but do scroll through and see the options available.
24. Click back and click _Leave Page_.
25. Click _Fulfill items_.
26. Here you can confirm what you are shipping, add a tracking number (or more than 1 if needed), and notify the customer, if appropriate. You can also print a packing slip.
27. Add a bogus tracking number (like _123_) and choose _USPS_ as the carrier.
28. Check _Send shipment details to your customer now_.
29. Click _Fulfill item_.
30. You will be returned to the order page. Scroll down to the log and notice that a shipping confirmation has been sent. Click _View email_ to see the email.
31. Scrolling back up, notice that there is a link to view the USPS tracking information on the order page as well.
32. Click _Release hold_.
33. Repeat the steps to fulfill the other page of the order.
34. You can now see both fulfillments listed as _Fulfilled_.
35. At the top, notice that the order has now been archived since it is paid and fulfilled.
36. Return to the order list and notice that the order is no longer listed in the _Open_ view.
37. Click _All_.
38. You should now see the order listed as _Fulfilled_ with _Tracking added_ in the _Delivery status_ column. If you click _Tracking added_ you can see the tracking numbers.

In the next tutorial, we'll look at _Local Delivery_ and _Pickup in store_ orders.
