---
layout: default
title: "7.3 Order Processing, part 2"
---

# 7.3 Order Processing, part 2

In part 1, we looked at how to manage an order that is being shipped. In this part, we'll look at managing _Local Delivery_ and _Pickup In Store_ orders.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to <https://admin.shopify.com/>.
2. Click _Orders_.
3. Click a _Local delivery_ order.
4. The order page looks largely the same as with any other order, but we have two different buttons within the fulfillment section: _Mark as delivered_ and _Prepare delivery_. We also have _Delivery instructions_ in the _Notes_ tile.
5. Click _Prepare delivery_.
6. This screen helps you pick the items to prepare for delivery. You can also print a packing slip.
7. Click _Mark as ready for delivery_.
8. At this point, your delivery driver would perform the delivery, communicating with the customer as needed. As we discussed, there are apps that help with this process. Once the order is delivered, you or the driver would click _Mark as delivered_.
9. At this point, the order is fulfilled and archived. If you scroll down to the order log, you can see that a delivery confirmation email was sent to the customer.
10. Return to the order list.
11. Click a _Pickup in store_ order.
12. This order page has just two differences that are in the fulfillment tile: buttons labeled _Mark as picked up_ and _Ready for pickup_.
13. Click _Ready for pickup_.
14. A _Prepare for pickup_ screen appears that includes a link to print a packing slip. Once the items are collected, you would click _Send pickup notification_. Go ahead and do that now.
15. Your customer receives an email indicating the the order is ready to be picked up.
16. If we return to the _Orders_ page, we can see that orders that are ready for pickup are marked in the _Fulfillment status_ column. When the customer picks up the order, you would click the order and then click _Mark as picked up_. Go ahead and do that now.
17. The order is marked as fulfilled and archived.
