---
layout: default
title: "7.4 Returns and Refunds"
---

# 7.4 Returns and Refunds

Shopify makes it easy to [accept returns](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/fulfillment/managing-orders/returns/creating-returns) and [issue refunds](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/fulfillment/managing-orders/refunding-orders). Let's explore!

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to <https://admin.shopify.com/>.
2. Click _Orders_.
3. Click on an order that has already been fulfilled.
4. Click _Return_. Keep in mind that Shopify supports self-serve returns, which we have configured. The process we are looking at here is a staff-assisted return, but we're going to look at self-serve returns in a bit.
5. Here you can identify the items that are being returned. For each item being returned, you can specify the reason.
6. You can also specify items that are being sent to the customer in exchange. I'm going to say that the customer decided they didn't want one item and another item was the wrong size. Then I'll specify a different size that is being sent in exchange.
7. Next, we can specify the return shipping option. If you use _Shopify Shipping_, you can have a label prepared. Or, you can upload a shipping label PDF that will be provided to the customer. We'll choose _No shipping required_.
8. In the summary, we see the value of the items being returned, the value of the exchange item, any return shipping and restocking fees, which we can adjust by clicking them, and the expected refund. Note that this will not issue a refund at this time. Click _Create return_.
9. We are brought back to the order page and can see that the exchange is on hold pending receipt of the returns. We can also see that there is a return in progress.
10. Once the returned items are received, we need to restock items if appropriate, issue a refund, and release the hold on the exchange. Click _Restock_.
11. We'll put both items back into inventory by checking both and clicking _Restock_.
12. Next, click _Refund_.
13. We're taken to the refund screen, where we can confirm the details. The two returned items are listed along with the exchange item. We can optionally choose to refund the shipping. If you expand the _Deductions_, you can see that the exchange and appropriate taxes are being deducted from the refund total.
14. You can make any necessary adjustments to the refund amount and then click _Refund_.
15. If you scroll down to the _Timeline_, you can view the email that went to the customer confirming the refund amount.
16. Finally, you can release the hold on the exchange and fulfill the exchange.
17. All of it is tracked in the _Timeline_.

Just as not all returns involve a refund, not all refunds are the result of a return. Let's say that a customer sends you a photo of damage to a product received. They are willing to keep it, but feel that a discount is in order. You can issue a refund for the discount.

1. Click another order.
2. Click _Refund_.
3. Note that you can't start a return for a refunded item, so if a return is coming, start there.
4. Here you can choose a item to refund, or you can specify a manual amount. Let's say that you agreed to a $20 refund. Enter $20.00 in the refund amount box.
5. Type _Product was damaged on receipt_ in the _Reason for refund_ box.
6. Click _Refund_.
7. Note that you can see the refund in the payment tile and also in the _Timeline_. You can also view the refund notification email that went to the customer.

Let's look at the process of a self-serve return request. Feel free to just watch rather than following along.

1. In the customer's order confirmation email, I click _View your order_.
2. I click _Request return_.
3. I'm prompted to sign in.
4. After signing in, I select a reason for the return and provide an optional note.
5. I can view the refund policy and then click _Request return_.
6. I'm brought back to the order confirmation with a note about the requested return.
7. Now as the shop owner, I log into the admin area and see on my order list that there is an order with a _Return status_ of _Return requested_.
8. If I click on the order, I can see the request details. I can then click, _Review request_.
9. Here I can add exchange items, if appropriate, and specify the return shipping options that we saw earlier. I'll select _No shipping required_ and click _Approve_. Of course, I could decline the request instead.
10. From here, the process is the same as if we had a staff-assisted return - you would wait for the return and then restock and refund.
