---
layout: default
title: "9.1 Coupons and Discounts"
---

# 9.1 Coupons and Discounts

Shopify provides a lot of flexibility when it comes to offering [discounts and coupons](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/discounts/index). You can offer automatic discounts as well as manual discount codes (AKA coupons codes). Let's take a look!

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to <https://admin.shopify.com/>.
2. Click _Discounts_.
3. Click _+ Add discount_.
4. There are four basic types of discounts: _Amount off products_ applies a discount to specific products or collections, _Buy X get Y_ provides a discount on a specific item or collection after a minimum purchase of an item or collection is reached, _Amount off order_ gives a discount on the total order amount, and _Free shipping_ discounts the shipping. For our first coupon, let's choose _Amount off order_.
5. Let's make this a manual discount code, so leave _Discount code_ selected.
6. Enter _15OFF_ as the discount code.
7. For the _Discount value_, choose _Percentage_ and specify _15%_.
8. For the _Purchase type_, choose _One-time purchase_.
9. Notice that the discount code is for the online store by default. You can optionally choose to enable it for _Point of Sale_ as well, if you are using _Shopify Point of Sale_. Shopify's Help Center has a document regarding [discount management for POS](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/sell-in-person/shopify-pos/discount-management).
10. We're going to give this coupon out when people subscribe to our e-newsletter in the next tutorial, so let's not require a minimum purchase and let's allow any customer who has it to use it. Choose _No minimum requirements_ and _All customer_.
11. Next, we can specify how many times the code can be used. The first checkbox allows us to create a code that can be used a specific number of times in total, in other words, it can be used for the first X orders from any customers. That's useful if you want to encourage people to make a purchase quickly, but we are going to be giving this code to individual new subscribers for potentially months to come, so that's not for us.
12. The next checkbox allows us to limit the code to be used by each customer a single time. Check _Limit to one use per customer_.
13. Next, you can choose if this code can be combined with other discounts. We don't want people to be able to combine this with other discounts, so we'll leave these unchecked.
14. Finally, you can determine the start and end dates. We'll start it immediately and not set an end date.
15. Click _Save discount_.
16. Note that you can get a shareable link to post on social media and include in emails. You can also view a sales report that shows customers who used the discount, which is helpful to see how profitable the discount has been.
17. Let's click back to the _Discounts_ page and let's add an automatic discount.
18. Click _+ Add discount_.
19. Click _Buy X get Y_.
20. Click _Automatic discount_.
21. Enter _Buy 2 t-shirts, get 1 free!_ as the _Title_.
22. At the moment, we have a single t-shirt, but let's look at how we could make this flexible enough to include other t-shirts. We'll add a collection for t-shirts. Hold the Control key and click _Products_ to open the _Products_ page in another tab.
23. Click _Collections_.
24. Click _Create collection_.
25. Enter _T-Shirts_ as the _Title_.
26. Choose _Smart_ as the _Collection type_.
27. For the condition, choose _Category_, _is equal to_, and _T-Shirts (Clothing Tops)_. Keep in mind that this collection will include all t-shirts without exceptions. When creating collections to tie to discounts, it's sometimes more appropriate to use a tag or to use a manual collection to give you more control.
28. Click _Save_.
29. Great - you've created the collection! Now return to the new discount you were creating.
30. Choose _Minimum quantity of items_ under _Customer buys_.
31. Enter _2_ as the _Quantity_.
32. Choose _Specific collection_ in the _Any items from_ box.
33. In the _Search collections_ box, enter _T-Shirts_, choose your new collection, and click _Add_.
34. Under _Customer gets_, enter _1_ as the _Quantity_.
35. Choose _Specific collections_ for _Any items from_.
36. In the _Search collections_ box, enter _T-Shirts_, choose your new collection, and click _Add_.
37. For _At a discounted value_, choose _Free_.
38. Check _Set a maximum number of uses per order_ and enter _5_ to allow up to 5 free t-shirts per order (assuming the customer buys 10 additional t-shirts!).
39. Note that this automatic discount will apply to all sales channels except for POS, but you can enable it for POS if you subscribe to POS Pro.
40. Next you can determine if this discount can be combined with other discounts. We'll leave these unchecked.
41. Finally, add an _End date_ that is at least a month in the future.
42. Click _Save discount_.
43. Let's go to the online store and test our discounts!
44. Hover over _Online Store_ on the admin menu and click the eye icon (_View your online store_).
45. Add 3 t-shirts to the cart.
46. View the cart and confirm that the discount appears.
47. Next, click _Check out_.
48. Enter the _15OFF_ discount code and click _Apply_.
49. You should get a message that the discount can't be used with the existing discounts. Return to the cart and remove a t-shirt.
50. You should now see that the t-shirt discount is gone, but the _15OFF_ coupon has been applied.

Now, having a discount on t-shirts is nice, but if you don't promote it, it's not going to do much good. How might you promote it? Well, you could add it to your announcement bar, or you could add it to your home page. You could also add it the description of your t-shirt products, or you could create a new template for all t-shirts and add it there. The benefit of that is that when the promotion ends, you don't need to update all of your t-shirt descriptions - just the single template. Let's do that.

1. Click _Online store_ in the admin menu.
2. Click _Customize_.
3. Click the template selector and click _Products_ then _Create template_.
4. Add a _Text_ block to the _Product information_ section.
5. Enter _Buy 2 get 1 free!_ and make it bold and italic.
6. Move the text block immediately above the _Buy buttons_ block.
7. Remember that changes to the _Header_ apply to all pages. Let's add an announcement while we are here. Expand the _Announcement bar_ and click _Add Announcement_.
8. Type _Buy 2 t-shirts, get 1 free!_ in the _Text_ box.
9. Click in the _Link_ box and click _Collections_ then _T-Shirts_.
10. Click _Save_.
11. Exit the template editor.
12. Go to _Products_ and edit the _NY Angel T-Shirt_.
13. Change the _Theme template_ to _t-Shirts_.
14. Click _Save_.
15. Now return to the online store and open the t-shirt. You may need to refresh the page, but you should see the _Buy 2 get 1 free_ message above the _Add to cart_ button.
16. Check the announcement bar as well and confirm that the new announcement appears and that the link takes you to the _T-Shirts_ collection.
