---
layout: default
title: "9.2 Lead Capturing"
nav_order: 2
---

# 9.2 Lead Capturing

As mentioned previously, the [Shopify Forms](https://apps.shopify.com/shopify-forms) app can be used to grow your contact list, capturing leads that you can nurture and convert into customers. Let's install this app.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to <https://admin.shopify.com/>.
2. Click _Apps_.
3. Type _Shopify Forms_ and click _Search "shopify forms" in Shopify App Store_.
4. Click the _Shopify Forms_ app.
5. Click _Install_.
6. The app is now installed! Click _Create Form_ to start using it.
7. Click _Popup_ and type _Save 15%_ in the _Form name_ box.
8. Click _Create_.
9. By the default, the _Teaser_ will display if the customer closes the form without subscribing, but you can change this behavior here. Change the _Title_ of the _Teaser_ to _Don't miss out - save 15% today!_
10. Change the _Title_ of the _Form_ to _Save 15% today!_
11. Change the _Content_ to _Sign up for free our birthday club to get a free gift on your birthday, be the first to learn about new deals, and save 15% on your first order!_
12. Click _Add new field_ and choose _Birthday_.
13. Click _Done_.
14. Click _Select a discount_.
15. Choose the coupon we created in the last tutorial.
16. Change the _Success_ _Title_ to _Thank you! Here's your 15% discount:_.
17. Change the _Success_ _Content_ to _Welcome to the birthday club! You'll be the first to hear about new deals!_
18. The _Styling_ section allows you to adjust colors and fonts.
19. You can upload an image to display on the form as well.
20. Next, you can choose on which devices and pages the form appears, and what triggers it. We'll keep the default to show on all pages and devices, and on first page view, but modify _After waiting for_ to display after 3 seconds instead of immediately.
21. Under _Tags_ we can add a tag to the customer to identify that they subscribed. Enter _birthdayclub_ and click _Add birthdayclub_.
22. You can optionally choose to receive an email each time someone subscribes.
23. You can also send a welcome email with the discount code to new subscribers, but this requires an active account. We'll skip it for now and click _Save_.
24. The preview form is testable - go ahead and try it!
25. Finally, as noted here, we need to add the app embed in order for the form to work. Click _Go to Online Store_ to go to the theme editor's _App Embeds_ pane.
26. Toggle on the _Forms_ app embed and click _Save_.
27. Now go to the online store and confirm that the form appears after 3 seconds!
