---
layout: default
title: "9.5 Gift Cards"
---

# 9.5 Gift Cards

Shopify gives you the ability to sell gift cards as well as to issue gift cards directly to customers. You sell gift cards by creating a _Gift card product_. When a customer buys the product, Shopify handles issuing the gift card to the customer. Let's look at this in detail.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to <https://admin.shopify.com/>.
2. Before we begin, let's check the gift card settings. Click _Settings_.
3. Click _Payments_.
4. Scroll down to _Gift card expiration_. By default, gift cards never expire. There are laws in many jurisdictions related to gift card expiration dates. If your jurisdiction's laws allow, you can set gift cards to expire after a specific number of years, months, or days. We'll leave it as-is.
5. Under _Apple wallet passes_ click _Customize_.
6. Here you can choose to enable Apple wallet passes for gift cards by checking the box at the bottom.
7. Click _General_.
8. Scroll down to _Order processing_.
9. By default, the order is not automatically fulfilled, but you can choose to automatically fulfill gift cards in the order. Note that this could be risky since you might automatically issue a gift card for an order that turns out to be fraudulent. Having a human review orders before sending out the gift card might be safest. We'll leave the default for now.
10. Now let's add a gift card product that customers can purchase. Click _Products_.
11. Click _Gift cards_.
12. Click _Add gift card product_.
13. Type _My Hobbies Shop Gift Card_ as the _Title_.
14. For the _Description_ type:

> Give the gift of choice with the My Hobbies Shop Gift Card! Perfect for friends, family, or anyone who loves unique handcrafted goods and travel-inspired souvenirs. Whether they're shopping for one-of-a-kind jewelry, artisan decor, or keepsakes from around the world, this gift card lets them pick exactly what they want.
>
> Available in multiple denominations, it’s the ideal present for any occasion—birthdays, holidays, or just because. No expiration date and easy to redeem online. Share the joy of exploring My Hobbies Shop’s collection today!

7. Download a free gift card image, such as [this one from Pixabay](https://pixabay.com/illustrations/coupon-gift-voucher-map-old-883642/).
8. Under _Media_, click _Upload new_ and select the image.
9. You can provide multiple denominations (initial values) for the gift card. Let's add a $150.00 option by clicking _Add denomination_ and entering _150.00_. Note that each denomination becomes a product variant.
10. Click _Save gift card product_.
11. Now let's add the gift card to the home page by adding it to the _Home page_ collection. Click _Collections_.
12. Click _Home page_.
13. In the _Search products_ box, type _Gift card_ and select the new product.
14. View the home page and you should now see the gift card!
15. Let's test it out! Choose a denomination and check the _I want to send this as a gift_ box. Put your own email address in along with your name and a message and click _Add to cart_.
16. Now view your cart and check out, using the _1_ card number and _Bogus Gateway_ as the name on the card.
17. Remember that we need to manually fulfill even gift card orders because of our order settings. Return to the admin area and click _Orders_.
18. Click the newly created order.
19. Click _Send gift card_.
20. Check _Send shipment details to your customer now_ to notify the purchaser that you have sent the gift card to the recipient.
21. Click _Fulfill item_.
22. The order is now fulfilled and archived.
23. Check your email and take a look at the gift card email that went to the recipient as well as the shipping notification.
24. Now let's create a gift card manually. Go to the admin area and click _Products_ and then _Gift cards_ as we did before.
25. Click _Create gift card_.
26. The gift card code is automatically generated, so leave the default.
27. Enter _25.00_ as the denomination.
28. By default, gift cards don't expire. Different jurisdictions have different laws about gift card expirations, so ensure that you are following the laws. For us, we'll keep the default.
29. You can choose to send the gift card to a new or existing customer by entering their details in the _Search or create customer_ box. Or, you can create a gift card without associating it with a customer. Let's say that we are giving this gift card to a charity for a raffle. We don't know who will use it, so we'll leave the customer blank.
30. Edit the notes and enter _For Jon's charity_. The notes appear in the admin area, but not to the customer.
31. Click _Save_.
32. Here we can see information about the gift card, including the code, which we need to copy so that we can provide it to the recipient. The code will not be visible again after we leave the page. You can also see the card's current balance, the timeline, and even add internal comments to the timeline.
33. Let's say that the charity raffle completed and the charity let us know who won. Let's associate the customer with the gift card. Search for yourself in the customer search box.
34. After selecting yourself, click _Save_.
35. The card has now been sent to your email address. Note that even though you can't see the code yourself, you can re-send it to the customer at any time by clicking _Send gift card_.
36. Take a look at your email to see what the gift card looks like.
37. Let's try using the gift card. Click the link in the email to view the store and then add something to your cart.
38. Proceed to checkout.
39. The gift card code goes in the same box as the discount code. Enter the code in the _Discount code or gift card_ box and click _Apply_.
40. Notice the gift card is shown, deducting from the order total. No credit card is requested if the gift card covers the order total. Complete the checkout.
41. Now return to the gift card email and check the balance. You should see that the order total has been subtracted from the card balance.
42. Return to the admin area and look up the gift card. Note the current balance that should match what you saw as the customer.
43. Also note that the order number and total is listed in the timeline and you can click the order number to view the order.
