# 9.6 Abandoned Cart Recovery

One significant problem that e-commerce stores face is customers adding items to their cart or maybe even starting the checkout process and then not finishing. This is referred to an _abandoned cart_ or _abandoned checkout_, respectively. As you saw in the Shopify Academy courses, Shopify offers automations that help with abandoned cart and abandoned checkout recovery.

By default, Shopify sends follow-up emails to customers who don't complete checkout. In this tutorial, we'll look at the settings for the [default Shopify abandoned checkout emails](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/promoting-marketing/create-marketing/abandoned-checkouts), how to migrate to Shopify's [new abandoned checkout automation](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/promoting-marketing/create-marketing/migrate-abandoned-checkout), and how to set up an abandoned cart automation.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to <https://admin.shopify.com/>.
2. Click _Settings_.
3. Click _Checkout_.
4. Scroll down to _Abandoned checkout emails_.
5. Here you can turn the emails on or off.
6. By default, anyone who abandons their checkout (after providing an email address) will receive the emails. If you instead only want to reengage with email subscribers who abandon their checkout, you can change that behavior here.
7. You can also determine how long after abandoning the checkout process the email will be sent. By default, this is 10 hours.
8. We'll leave the settings as-is for now and click _Customize email_.
9. There is a note at the top that we need to review and verify the sender email. Click the link to start that process.
10. Make sure that your email address is listed, make and save any changes, and click Resend verification.
11. Check your email and click the _Verify email_ button in the message that you receive.
12. Now go back to the _Edit Abandoned checkout_ screen and see that you can edit the email subject and the Liquid template for the email message. Click _Preview_ to see what the email will look like.
13. What if you want to offer a discount in the email? Let's create a discount code and add it to the email. Why create a new one instead of using a discount we already have? By creating a new discount, we can better track how much value each discount is bringing to us. If we used an existing discount (the one that we give to new subscribers), we wouldn't be able to differentiate between the value of sales resulting from the abandoned checkout and email list discounts. Close the _Settings_ page and click _Discounts_.
14. Click _+ Add discount_.
15. Choose _Amount off order_.
16. Leave _Discount code_ selected and type _A10OFF_ as the code - we'll use _A_ to indicate to us that this is for an abandoned cart.
17. For the value, choose _Percentage_ and type _10_.
18. Leave _No minimum requirements_ selected.
19. Select _Specific customer segments_ and click _Browse_.
20. Click _Abandoned checkouts in the last 30 days_.
21. Check _Limit to one use per customer_.
22. We'll let customers combine this with any other discount that can be combined with order discounts. To do that, check all three boxes under _Combinations_. Keep in mind that both discounts have to allow combinations in order for them to be combined, so currently this isn't doing anything since we haven't enabled other discounts to be combined with order discounts.
23. Click _Save_.
24. Click _Settings_.
25. Click _Checkout_.
26. Scroll to _Abandoned checkout emails_ and click _Customize email_.
27. We want to add the discount code to the email body. The _capture_ liquid tags allow us to add text to variables and there is an _email_body_ variable that is being populated with a paragraph of introductory text. That's where we will add our coupon code. Immediately before the _{% endcapture %}_ line, add a blank line and type _<strong>Use discount code A10OFF to save 10%!</strong>_
28. Click _Save_.
29. Click _Preview_ and you should now see the discount code at the end of the introductory paragraph.

That's it! You've configured the default Shopify abandoned checkout email and added a coupon to it.

Shopify has introduced a new abandoned checkout marketing automation that will eventually replace the default email and is currently available on an opt-in basis. The new automation gives you more design flexibility and control over when your abandoned checkouts are sent, and to whom. The new automation requires the _Shopify Email_ app, though, so we won't be able to use it. You can [learn more in the Shopify Help Center](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/promoting-marketing/create-marketing/migrate-abandoned-checkout). Let's see how you would opt in.

1. Click _Marketing_.
2. Click _Automations_.
3. Click _View templates_.
4. Click _Recover abandoned checkout_.
5. Note that the automation requires the _Shopify Email_ app. If you wanted to enable this, you would click _Turn on automation_.

While we are here, notice the _Recover abandoned cart_ and _Convert abandoned product browse_ automations. Once you have collected a customer's email address, the _Recover abandoned cart_ automation allows you to send a marketing email when a customer adds at least one product to their cart but doesn’t proceed to checkout. The _Convert abandoned product browse_ automation allows you to send a marketing email to customers who viewed a product but didn’t add it to their cart. Both exclude customers who received an abandoned checkout, cart, or product browse email in the last 14 days. You could enable those here, but both require Shopify Email so we won't.
