---
layout: default
title: "3.1 Themes"
nav_order: 1
---

# 3.1 Themes

The look of your Shopify shop is provided by a _Theme_. There are many free and paid themes that you can use and it's also possible to create your own. This week, we're going to briefly explore how to select and make basic changes to themes and next week we'll be doing a "deep dive" into creating and modifying themes.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Online Store_ in the menu.
3. Click _Themes_ in the menu.
4. The _Themes_ page gives you a preview of your current theme, along with some information about your current theme. If an updated version of the theme is available, you'll see that highlighted in the theme version drop-down. The _Customize_ button opens the drag-and-drop _Theme Editor_, which we'll explore more in the next tutorial. The more button allows you to open a preview, rename, duplicate, download, edit the source code, or edit default theme content.
5. The _Theme Library_ shows themes that you have added to your shop but are not currently published. You can add multiple themes in order to test them out, or you could even use different themes for different seasons! If you click _Add theme_, you'll see that you can add a theme from the _Theme Store_, from GitHub, or by uploading a .zip file. Note that you can customize a theme that is not published. You can also preview it using the _Preview_ item on the more button. When you are ready for your shoppers to see the new theme, you click _Publish_!
6. Finally, we have _Popular free themes_, which you can click on to learn about and preview, or click _Add_ to add them to your shop. To check out the rest of the themes in the _Theme Store_, click the _Visit Theme Store_ button. Pause the video and spend a few minutes exploring the _Theme Store_. Note that many themes cost money and they can get pricey, although not as expensive as hiring someone to build a custom theme.
7. Let's add the _Craft_ theme to our shop. Find _Craft_ in _Popular free themes_ and click _Add_.
8. You'll see an _Installing theme_ message for several seconds. Once it is done installing, click the more button and click _Preview_ and explore the theme a bit.
9. Close the preview.

In the next tutorial, we'll customize the _Craft_ theme to make it our own!