---
layout: default
title: "3.2 Introduction to Theme Customizations"
nav_order: 2
---

# 3.2 Introduction to Theme Customizations

1. We're picking up from where we left off in the last tutorial. If needed, log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/], click _Online Store_ in the side menu, and click _Themes_.
2. We're going to use the _Craft_ theme but we want to make some changes, so we'll make a copy of the theme and make our changes to the copy so that we can easily revert back to the original if needed. Click the more button next to _Craft_ and click _Duplicate_.
3. Click the more button again and click _Rename_.
4. Type _My Hobbies Shop_ and click _Save_.
5. Click _Customize_ to open the _Theme Editor_.
6. In the center of the screen is the current template. If you hover your mouse over the template, the various sections and blocks that make up the template are highlighted. Down the left-hand side is the section navigator. You can switch to _Theme Settings_ or _App embeds_ using the icons at the far left. At the top of the page, you can change the template that you are editing. For example, click _Home Page_ to change the template, then click _Products_ and _Default product_ to edit the template that is currently being used to display all products.
7. In the section navigator, notice that the sections are further grouped into _Header_, _Template_, and _Footer_. These are called _Section Groups_. Changes that you make to the _Header_ and _Footer_ group apply to all pages, regardless of the template. For example, let's add a menu to the footer.
8. Expand the _Footer_ section inside the _Footer_ section group and click _Add block_.
9. Click _Menu_.
10. A new menu appears titled _Quick links_. Click on it and look to the pane on the right side of the screen. This is called the _Settings_ pane. Here you can change the heading for the block and can also change which menu appears in the block. Currently a menu called _Footer menu_ is selected, which is what we want. Click _Change_ and then _Change Menu_ to see how you would change the menu that appears. We'll explore how to create and modify what appears in menus in another tutorial.
11. Click _Save_ in the upper right-hand corner to save your changes.
12. Now switch back to the _Home page_ template and check to confirm that the _Quick links_ menu appears in the footer on this page as well!
13. Let's make a few adjustments to the home page template. Click the left box that reads _Your collection's name_. This is a _Collection_ block.
14. In the _Settings_ pane on the right, click _Select Collection_.
15. Click _I ❤️ New York_ and then click the _Select_ button.
16. Click the _Collection_ block on the right and select the _Household Decor_ collection.
17. Click the _Featured Collection_ block below the other two blocks.
18. Currently, this block is trying to use a collection that doesn't exist. Click _Change_, then _Change Collection_, and choose the _Home page_ collection that was created automatically for us. This is a manual collection that we can use to select specific items that we want to display on the home page.
19. Save our changes.

We're making progress! You can preview your changes using the more button at the top of the screen, on the left-hand side, after the theme name. Next up, we'll talk about customizing the shop header.
