---
layout: default
title: "3.3 Customizing the Site Header"
---

# 3.3 Customizing the Site Header

In this tutorial, we'll look at how to customize the header of your shop.

1. We're picking up from where we left off in the last tutorial. If needed, log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/], click _Online Store_ in the side menu, click _Themes_, then click _Customize_ next to the _My Hobbies Shop_ theme.
2. Take a look at the _Header_ section group in the section navigator. You'll see an _Announcement bar_ section and a _Header_ section. Currently, the _Announcement bar_ section has a single block that says _Welcome to our store_. If you click the block and look in the _Settings_ pane, you'll see that you can add a link to the announcement.
3. Add another announcement by clicking _Add Announcement_.
4. Change the text for this announcement to, _Get your Brit on! Our London Pillow is on sale!_.
5. Click the _Link_ box and you'll see that, in addition to pasting a URL, you can select a product, collection, or other link in your shop using a menu. Click _Products_ and then _London Pillow_.
6. Click the _Header_ block and take a look at the _Settings_ pane. You can change the position of the logo, which menu is used, how the menu appears, and various other settings.
7. Click _Sticky header_ and choose _On scroll up_ to have the header appear at the top of the screen when the shopper starts to scroll up. If you preview the behavior, you'll notice that the header text appears jumbled with the page text because there is currently no background color for the header. Let's change that.
8. Each theme in Shopify can specify a set of _Color schemes_ that can then be customized by you. We'll talk more about colors in the next tutorial, but for now just know that you can apply different color schemes to different sections of your shop. Click _Change_ under _Color scheme_ and select _Scheme 5_.
9. Next, let's add a logo for our store. Click the _Theme Settings_ button and then expand _Logo_.
10. Click _Select Image_ under _Logo_, then _Add Image_, and select the _My Hobbies Shop v3.svg_ file that was included in the tutorial resources in Brightspace, then click _Done_.
11. The logo appears, but it is quite small. Adjust the _Desktop logo width_ to _300px_.
12. Before we leave the _Theme Settings_ take a moment to browse all of the settings available. We can adjust fonts, borders, and so much more. You can also define social media accounts and _Brand Information_, which includes your shop headline and description. Also note that you can specify _Custom CSS_ in case you want to tweak your theme's styles in ways that the settings don't allow.
13. Save your changes and open the preview.
14. Do you like what you see? Notice that you can see the new announcement that we added by clicking the right arrow, but it doesn't change automatically. We can change that, though.
15. Return to the _Theme Editor_ and click the _Sections_ button to show the section navigator. Click _Announcement bar_ and check the _Settings_ pane. Check the _Auto-rotate announcements_ box and leave _Change every_ set to _5s_ to switch the announcement every 5 seconds.
16. Click _Save_ and refresh the preview.
17. What if you only want to show the London Pillow announcement? You can use the eye icon to temporarily hide the welcome message, or you can use the trash can to delete it.

Next we'll look at how to customize our store's colors!
