---
layout: default
title: "3.4 Customizing Site Colors"
nav_order: 4
---

# 3.4 Customizing Site Colors

As we briefly discussed in the last tutorial, the colors used in your site's theme are specified as a set of color schemes, which can then be applied to different sections of your site templates. In this tutorial, we'll look at how to customize the colors.

1. We're picking up from where we left off in the last tutorial. If needed, log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/], click _Online Store_ in the side menu, click _Themes_, then click _Customize_ next to the _My Hobbies Shop_ theme.
2. Click _Theme Settings_ and expand _Colors_.
3. You'll see that 5 color schemes are currently defined and there is an option to add another scheme. You can have up to a total of 21 color schemes. Click _Scheme 1_.
4. Each color scheme includes a background color, optional background gradient, text color, solid button background color (used for the primary button), solid button label color (used for the primary button), outline button color (applied to the secondary button text and border), and shadow color. You can edit a color by clicking the color preview next to the color name. You can also tie a color name to a brand color using the _Connect dynamic source_ button. We'll talk more about brand colors in a few weeks.
5. Let's add a scheme that will be used for a fall sale. Click _Add scheme_.
6. For the background, specify #EB781B.
7. For the background gradient, start with a radial gradiant (darker in the center, lighter on the edges in a circular pattern) and then specify #EB781B as the light color and #CC5221 as the dark color for a very subtle gradiant.
8. Specify #252525 as the text color.
9. Specify #71250E as the solid button background and leave white as the solid button label.
10. Specify #6F6534 as the outline button and leave the shadow color as-is.
11. In the _Home page_ template, click _Add section_ and choose _Featured Collection_.
12. Change the _Color scheme_ to _Scheme 6_.
13. Change the title to _Tricks and Treats_.
14. Click _Select Collection_.
15. Click _Create Collection_.
16. A new tab appears for creating the new collection. Call the collection _Tricks and Treats_, make it a _Manual_ collection, and select items that you feel fit into a fall collection.
17. Save the new collection and close the _Create Collection_ tab.
18. Search for the new collection, click it, and click _Select_.
19. Use the move handle to drag the _Tricks or Treats_ featured collection block above the other featured collection block.
20. Save your changes.
21. Click _Publish_.
22. A box will appear reminding you that this will replace your current theme and asking you to confirm. Click _Save and publish_.
23. You'll be taken back to the _Themes_ page and will see that the new theme has been published.
24. Click _View Your Store_ to check it out!
