---
layout: default
title: "3.5 Site Content"
---

# 3.5 Site Content

Just like a more traditional Web content management system, Shopify allows us to create pages and blog posts and also create and manage navigation menus. In this tutorial, we'll briefly explore how to add and manage such content.

1. We're picking up from where we left off in the last tutorial. If needed, log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/] and click _Online Store_ in the side menu.
2. Click _Blog Posts_.
3. Click _Create Blog Post_.
4. Before we get too far, we need to get a link to the _Tricks and Treats_ collection. Hold the _Control (CTRL)_ key on your Windows keyboard or _Command_ on macOS and click _Products_. The _Products_ page will appear in a new tab.
5. Click _Collections_.
6. Click _Tricks and Treats_.
7. Click _View_.
8. Copy the URL and put it in a safe space, then you can close the tab to return to the blog post.
9. For the blog post title, type _How to Create a Spooktacular Halloween Wreath_. Note that there is a button to use generative artificial intelligence (AI) to create the title.
10. In the _Content_ box, paste the blog post from the _Halloween Wreath Blog Post.docx_ file provided in Brightspace.
11. The formatting for the blog post should be carried over from Word, but take a look at the formatting options available in the toolbar. The first button on the toolbar allows you to use generative AI to help you write your blog post. Other buttons provide standard text formatting (such as blog and italic) that you are likely familiar with from Word processors and content management systems such as WordPress, as well as the ability to add images, tables, and videos.
12. Highlight the words _Halloween-themed home decor_ and then click the _Insert link_ button on the toolbar.
13. Paste the URL that you copied earlier into the _Link to_ field.
14. Change _Open this link in_ to _a new window_.
15. For the _Link title_, type _our Halloween collection_.
16. Click _Insert link_.
17. Let's add a video to the blog post. Perform a Web search for a YouTube video about creating a Halloween wreath, or visit <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zrlDnNI5hLo&ab_channel=MichelleSmithCreations> for one such video.
18. Click _Share_.
19. Click _Embed_.
20. Copy the HTML code that appears.
21. Return to the blog post and add a line at the end of the post.
22. Click the _Insert video_ button on the toolbar.
23. Paste the embed code into the box.
24. Click _Insert Video_.
25. Next, add a _Featured image_ by dragging the Halloween wreath image provided in Brightspace into the _Featured image_ box.
26. Click _Add excerpt_ and type _Halloween is the perfect time to get creative and give your home a festive touch. Learn how to create a spooktacular Halloween wreath to hang on your front door!_ in the box that appears.
27. The _Visibility_ section can be used to publish the post immediately by clicking _Visible_, keep it hidden for now by clicking _Hidden_, or publish it in the future by clicking _Set visibility date_. Click _Visible_.
28. You can change the author, but we'll leave it as-is.
29. Shopify supports having multiple blogs. A _News_ blog already exists, but that doesn't really fit this post. Let's create a new blog called _Crafting Tips_. Click the _Blog_ drop-down and click _Create a new blog_, then type _Crafting Tips_ in the _Blog title_ box that appears.
30. Like with products, we can add _Tags_ to blog posts to identify keywords that relate to the blog post. Type _Halloween, autumn, fall,_ and notice that when you press the comma key, it adds the tag to the list.
31. Finally, note that you can choose a tempate for each blog post, but we only have a single template for all posts right now.
32. Click _Save_!
33. Click _View_ to see the blog post. Notice how the featured image, link, and video appear.
34. Click _Back to blog_ at the bottom of the post and notice that it takes you to the _Crafting tips_ blog with a preview of our single post.

In addition to blog posts, we can create pages for static information, such as an _About us_ page.

1. Return to the admin area and click _Pages_ under _Online Store_.
2. We have a single _Contact_ page. Click it to open the _Edit Page_ screen.
3. Notice that the _Contact_ page uses a special _contact_ theme template. Also notice that there are buttons to duplicate, view, or delete the page, and that you can hide any page.
4. Click back to the _Pages_ list and click _Add page_.
5. In the _Title_ type _About Us_.
6. In the _Content_, paste the text from the _About Us Page.docx_ file provided in Brightspace.
7. Click before _Our Craft_ and press Enter.
8. Click on the blank line and then click _Insert image_.
9. Select one of the wreath images and click _Done_.
10. Click the photo that you inserted and click the _Alignment_ button, then choose _Center align_.
11. Take note that you have the same _Visibility_ options that you had for the blog post. Leave _Visible_ selected and click _Save_.
12. Click _View Page_ to see how the page appears.

So we now have a new page and a new blog, but these don't appear on any navigation menu! Let's fix that.

1. Leave the _About Us_ page open in its tab, but return to the admin area tab and click _Navigation_ under _Online store_.
2. You can add a menu using the _Add menu_ link or edit any of your menus. There are currently two menus. Click _Main menu_ to edit that one, which appears at the top of your pages.
3. Here you can change the title of the menu as well as add, edit, delete, and reorder menu items. We'll talk more about handles next week, so don't worry about that for now.
4. Click _Add menu item_.
5. For the _Name_, type _About Us_.
6. Click in _Search or paste a link_ and start typing _About Us_ and then select the page when it appears in the list.
7. Click _Add_.
8. Next, let's add the blog. Click _Add menu item_ again.
9. Type _Crafting Tips_ as the _Name_.
10. Search for _Crafting_ in the _Search or paste a link_ box and click _Blogs_ and then _Crafting Tips_ when the options appear.
11. Click _Add_.
12. Use the handles to reorder the menu items so that _About Us_ comes after _Crafting Ideas_, which comes after _Catalog_.
13. Click _Save menu_.
14. Return to the tab with the _About Us_ page and refresh. Notice that the menu is updated and _About Us_ is highlighted on the menu because it is the active page. Click _Crafting Ideas_ to go to the blog.

Your shop is coming together! Next week, we'll be looking at what is involved in creating your own theme or making larger changes to an existing theme. Until then, feel free to play around more with the _My Hobbies Shop_ by adjusting the theme and adding pages and blog posts!
