---
layout: default
title: "2.1 Adding Products"
---

# 2.1 Adding Products

In order to create a store, you must have a product to sell! In this tutorial, we'll get started creating products.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Products_ on the side menu to see the list of products.
3. There aren't any, so let's add one! Click the _Add Product_ button.
4. Type _London Pillow_ as the product _Title_.
5. In the _Description_ box, type _Lumbar pillow with Victoria Tower (Big Ben) on one side and Tower Bridge on the other. This pillow is 21 inches wide by 12 inches high._
6. In the _Media_ box, click _Upload New_.
7. Note that Shopify allows us to provide multiple images, videos, and/or 3D models for each product. [Shopify's Help Center has a helpful section on product media](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/product-media), in case you want to learn more. We're going to start with one image. Navigate to the LONDBLSDPL.png file that you downloaded from Brightspace and click _Open_.
8. After a moment, the image will appear under _Media_ along with a plus sign to add something else. Click the photo of the pillow.
9. Here you can adjust the image name and alt text, crop and transform the image, resize the image, draw on the image, apply a background color to the image, or even  use generative artificial intelligence to replace the background with another image. You can also click somewhere on the image to set the focal point, which is the key part of an image that you don't want to be cropped by a responsive layout. For this photo, we are only going to set the _Alt text_. _Alt text_ appears in place of the photo if it can't be loaded for some reason, is used by assistive technology to describe the image to visually impaired customers, and also helps with search engine optimization; therefore, it should accurately describe the image to someone who can't see it. In the _Alt text_ box, type _Photo of the front and back of a decorative pillow. One side features an image of Victoria Tower and the other side the Tower Bridge._
10. Click _Save_.
11. Click _Exit_ to leave the image editor.
12. Click the _Category_ box. Shopify analyzed your title to come up with a suggested category. A _Category_ in Shopify is a label that describes the group or class that a product belongs to and is selected from [Shopify's Standard Product Taxonomy](https://shopify.github.io/product-taxonomy/releases/unstable/?categoryId=sg-4-17-2-17), rather than from a list of categories that is customized to your site - there are other fields that we will use to customize how we organize our products, which we will explore in another tutorial. [Shopify's Help Center includes more explanation about the product category](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/details#category), but for now we are going to focus on one: each category can provide various _Metafields_, which allow you to provide additional information about the product that is specific to that category. You can change the category by navigating using the list that appears when you click in the box, or you can type into the box to search for something. I'm going to bet that Shopify suggested one of the many _Pillow_ categories to you. Clear the _Category_ box and retype _Pillow_ but don't click anything or press any keys after you do!
13. Note all of the categories that were found! Most of these categories aren't good candidates, but there are a few that are. To better understand the relationship between categories and metafields, click the line that says _Pillows_ on the left and _Bedding_ on the right.
14. The _Category_ box now shows _Pillows in Bedding_. Above the box it says _6 metafields_, which means that the category provides 6 different prompts for additional information that you might want to supply. Click _6 metafields_ to be taken farther down the _Add product_ screen to the _Category metafields_ area, or just scroll down until you see that area.
15. Take a look at the options suggested for you. _Cover material_ and _Filler material_ appear with _Polyester_ as a value. There are another 4 metafields that are currently blank, but you can provide values by clicking the appropriate button. For example, click _+ Care instructions_ to add a _Care Instructions_ box and then click in that box to see a list of default instructions that you can select, or you can supply your own by clicking _Add New Entry_ or simply typing your instructions and then clicking the _Add_ button that appears once you are done.
16. Scroll back up to the _Category_ prompt. This is more of a _Throw Pillow_ than a bedding pillow. Search for _Pillow_ again and this time choose the _Throw Pillows_ category, which is in the _Decor_ category.
17. We can now see that this gives you 4 metafields, which we will complete shortly.
18. In the _Pricing_ area, type _49.95_ as the _Price_.
19. The _Compare-at Price_ box allows us to show that this price is marked down from a higher price. If people see that the price is discounted, they may feel compelled to grab the deal while they can. The potential customer will see the higher price (sometimes called an _Anchor Price_) and see that as the value of the item. They then perceive the price that you are charging as a deal, even if they would otherwise see it as expensive/overpriced, and this can influence their purchasing decision. You've probably seen this concept used on _Amazon_ and elsewhere. A book on _Amazon_ is a prime example, because books have an _MSRP_ (_manufacturer's suggested retail price_ AKA _list price_ or _sticker price_), which is the price that the publisher suggests that the book be sold for and _Amazon_ almost never charges that price. This allows them to show the price they are charging listed as a discount compared to the MSRP. _Amazon_ may have charged less for the item last week than they are charging today, but _Amazon_ will still list the current price as a discount compared to the _MSRP_, so the shopper feels like they are getting a deal even if they could get a better one. Let's enter _54.95_ as the _Compare-at Price_.
20. Leave the _Charge tax on this product_ box checked.
21. We'll explore international pricing in a future lesson, so you can skip the next link.
22. We can record a _Cost per item_, which will help us analyze product costs and margins. This won't be shown to customers! Type _29.74_ into the _Cost per item_ box. The _Profit_ per item and the _Margin_ will be automatically calculated.
23. As we will see in a future lesson, Shopify has tools to help us manage inventory, including managing multiple inventory locations. For now, enter _25_ in the only box that appears under _Quantity_.
24. The checkbox _Continue selling when out of stock_ allows us to indicate if the online shop will accept backorders. Leave it unchecked so that once our inventory is gone, no more pillows will be sold.
25. A _SKU_ (_Stock Keeping Unit_) is a unique code that our store assigns to each product and it can follow any format we want. It's an optional field, but we're going to add one. Check the _This product has a SKU or barcode_ box and enter _LONDBLSDPL_ as the _SKU_.
26. A _Barcode_ is also optional, although some sales channels will require it (we'll talk more about sales channels in a future lesson). A _Barcode_ needs to be a new or existing _Global Trade Item Number_ (such as a UPC, EAN, or ISBN), which uniquely identifies the product internationally and comes from the manufacturer, so if you are reselling a product you can get the _GTIN_ from the manufacturer, or if you are manufacturing the product [you can learn more about how to get a _GTIN_ on the GS1 standards Web site](https://www.gs1.org/standards/barcodes). Do not invent false GTIN's - if you don't have one and can't get one, leave the _Barcode_ box blank.
27. This is a physical product that will be shipped, so we need to provide the weight. Type _26_ under _Weight_ and select _oz_ fom the drop-down.
28. Now we come to the _Category metafields_. Change the _Cover material_ to _Cotton_ and the _Filler material_ to _synthetic_.
29. Add _Throw pillow shape_ and select _Lumbar_.
30. Take a look at the _Search engine listing_ section. This gives you a preview of how this product's page will appear in search engine result pages. You can click the pencil button to edit the _page title_, _meta description_, and _URL handle_, which is the last part of the _URL_ (WordPress calls this the _slug_).
31. We're almost done, but before we save this, scroll back up to the top of the page. The _Status_ drop-down allows you to set this as a draft. If you wanted to save your changes but weren't yet ready to publish the product, you could choose that option. We'll leave it as _Active_ so that we will publish when saving.
32. The _Publishing_ section shows us the status in the various sales channels and markets, which are topics we will explore in the future. There's one thing here to look at, though: see the icon with a calendar and clock? Click that and you can schedule the product to be published in your store at some point in the future.
33. The _Insights_ section will show you sales insights once you've started selling, so we'll talk more about this when we talk about reporting in a future lesson.
34. We'll talk more about _Product Organization_ in another tutorial this week.
35. Finally, the _Theme template_ is something we'll discuss in a few weeks. The default is fine for now.
36. Scroll back down to the bottom and click _Save_!

The page refreshes with some new buttons at the top and bottom, along with an "Active" tag appearing after the product title at the top of the page. This is no longer the _Add Product_ page - it is the _Edit Product_ one! If you scroll down, you'll see some other changes, such as the _Publishing_ section showing green marks to indicate that the product is available in certain channels and markets, and the _Inventory_ section showing columns indcating how many items are unavailable/committed/available/on hand.

Click the _Preview_ button and see the product that you have added to your shop! The page is very plain thanks to the default theme, but we'll do something about that next week.
