---
layout: default
title: "2.2 Product Variants"
nav_order: 2
---

# 2.2 Product Variants

Now that we've added our first product, we're going to explore the more advanced options available to us. _Product Variants_ allow us to specify options for the product, such as size and color. Each combination of options is considered a variant. Once you've aded variants to a product, the _Pricing_, _Inventory_, and _Shipping_ settings are adjusted from the variant details page, rather than the product page.

Before we begin, let's review [Shopify's considerations for adding variants](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/variants/add-variants#considerations-for-adding-variants).

There are two ways to add options that can be used to create variants:

- We can add the options directly to the product, useful for things that are specific to a single product.
- We can connect variant options to a category metafield, which makes the data reusable across multiple products and makes content edits easier.

Let's take a look at each of these:

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Products_ on the side menu to see the list of products.
3. Click the _Add Product_ button.
4. Type _NY Angel T-Shirt_ as the product _Title_.
5. In the _Description_ box, type _Show your NY love with Bethesda Angel from Central Park. Comes is a variety of colors and sizes._
6. In the _Media_ box, click _Upload New_.
7. Navigate to the NYANGELWHITE.png file that you downloaded from Brightspace and click _Open_.
8. Once it loads, click the photo of the t-shirt.
9. In the _Alt text_ box, type _Photo of t-shirt featuring a photo of the Bethesda Angel from Central Park._
10. Click on the angel's head to specify the focal point, ensuring that the angel appears if the responsive layout causes any portion of the photo to be cropped out.
11. Click _Save_.
12. Click _Exit_ to leave the image editor.
13. Click the _Category_ box. If it's not already selected, select _T-Shirts in Clothing Tops_ by searching for _t-shirts_ and selecting the proper choice.
14. In the _Pricing_ area, type _14.95_ as the _Price_.
15. Leave the _Compare-at Price_ blank.
16. Leave the _Charge tax on this product_ box checked.
17. Type _6.11_ into the _Cost per item_ box. The _Profit_ per item and the _Margin_ will be automatically calculated.
18. Skip the _Inventory_ section for now.
19. Type _5.5_ under _Weight_ and select _oz_ fom the drop-down.
20. Under _Variants_, click _Add options like size or color_.
21. A drop-down appears allowing us to select from the metafields connected to our category, along with an option that says _Create custom option_.
22. Click _Create custom option_.
23. Type _Size_ as the _Option Name_.
24. Type _Small_ as the first _Option Value_ and an additional box will appear. Proceed to add _Medium_ and _Large_ as separate values.
25. Click _Done_.
26. Below the list of options, we now see 3 variants: one for each of the sizes. The price that we entered above is copied down to each, where we can now set variant-specific pricing. We can also upload an image for each variant.
27. Let's add _Color_ as another option, but this time we'll use the metafield. Click _Add another option_ and then click _Color_.
28. An icon appears next to the new option indicating that it is connected to a metafield. The _Color_ box under _Category metafields_ also becomes greyed-out, indicating that we can no longer specify the color there as it is a variation option.
29. We need more than one color, so click the _Color_ option.
30. Click _Add Color_ and select _Gray_.
31. We want to add _Light Blue_, but it doesn't appear as an option. Click _Add new entry_.
32. Type _Light Blue_ as the label.
33. Click _Color_ and enter #C8DBFB.
34. Select _Blue_ as the _Base Color_ and _Solid_ as the _Base Pattern_.
35. Click _Save_.
36. Click _Add color_ again and check the _Light Blue_ option that you just created.
37. Notice that the variants are grouped by size and we can expand each size to see all of the color variants for that size. Change the _Group by_ drop-down to _Color_.
38. Notice also that we can drag the options above to re-order them. We can leave the order as-is, though.
39. Let's add images for each of the color options. Click the button next to the _White_ color variant group and find the image of the white t-shirt that you downloaded from Brightspace.
40. Repeat the process for Gray and Light Blue.
41. Notice that we can adjust the prices here for each variant, but we don't do so right now.
42. Expand the color variant groups and notice that each size uses the image from the color, which is what we want.
43. Review the _Category_ metafields to ensure that _Age group_ is _Adult_, _Neckline_ is _Crew_, _Sleeve length type_ is _Short_, and _Target gender_ is _Unisex_.
44. Add _Fabric_ as a _Category metafield_ and choose _Bamboo_.
45. Click _Save_!
46. Now that we have saved what we have done, let's look at how we would make adjustments to individual variants. Scroll to the _Variants_ section. You can click on individual variants to change the variant's settings. Click the Small White variant.
47. Notice that this page allows you to easily navigate to the other variants using the menu on the left and even search and filter for variants in case you have many.
48. Can you change the variant options (size and color) as well as the photo at the top.
49. Next you can adjust the _Price_, _Compare-at price_, and _Cost per item_ for this variant.
50. You can also adjust the _Inventory_ and _Shipping_ settings for this variant and can see and adjust the current inventory levels.
51. Let's suppose that the small t-shirts cost slightly less than the medium ones and the large ones cost slightly more. Let's also assume that the small t-shirts weight slightly less than the medium ones and the large ones weight slightly more. Finally, let's also define variant-specific SKU's and set inventory amounts. Change the _Cost per item_ for each small t-shirt to _$6.04_, the _Weight_ to _5oz_, the SKU to _NYANGELT-_ followed by _AS_ for Adult Small, and _G, LB, or W_ for Gray, Light Blue, or White, respectively. For example, the light blue medium t-shirt's new SKU will be _NYANGELT-AMLB_. Notice that as you enter the SKU, Shopify checks it. It's helping you out be ensuring that the SKU is unique - it will warn you if you use the same SKU on two different products/variants.
52. Click _Save_ to save your changes and then add a small quantity of each variant by clicking the 0 under _Available_ in the _Inventory_ section, typing the new amount in _Adjust by_, leaving the _Reason_ as _Correction_, and pressing Enter or clicking _Save_ in the small dialog box that appears.
53. Repeat that process for the medium t-shirts, leaving the cost and weight as-is, using a SKU of _NYANGELT-AM_ (for Adult Medium) followed by the color code from before, and selecting your own quantity available.
54. Finally, repeat the process for the large t-shirts, setting the cost to _$6.14_, the weight to _6oz_, the SKU to _NYANGELT-AL_ (for Adult Large) followed by the color code from before, and selecting your own quantity available.
55. If you click the back arrow next to the variant name at the top of the Edit Variant page, you'll be taken to the Edit Product page.
56. Scrolling back down to the _Variants_ section, notice that each variant's SKU and available quantity is now listed, and a _Total inventory across all locations_ line shows you the quantity of all variants of this product.

Well, that was a lot of work! Before we are done with this tutorial, let's take a look at how the variants will appear in our store. Click the _Preview_ button at the top of the Edit Product page to see the options. Notice that when we click a color option, the photo updates to show that color's photo. Also notice that all three of the photos appear below the large photo and we can click on each to see it large, but clicking a preview photo doesn't change the color option that is selected.
