---
layout: default
title: "2.3 Product Meta Data"
nav_order: 3
---

# 2.3 Product Meta Data

Shopify allows you to store additional information that wouldn't usually be captured about products. This data is stored in what Shopify calls _Metafields_. Shopify has [extensive documentation about metafields](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/custom-data/metafields), but we are going to take a brief look at how to set up and use metafields.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Settings_ at the bottom of the side menu.
3. Click _Custom data_ in the _Settings_ menu.
4. Here you can explore and create _Metafields_ and _Metaobjects_. You can use _Metaobjects_ to populate _Metafields_ when you need a _Metafield_ to contain complex information. For example, notice that _Color_ is listed as a _Metaobject_. If you click that, you can see how colors are defined, which should look familiar after we created the light blue color in the last tutorial. You can see the colors that have been defined by clicking the _More actions_ button and choosing _View X entries_.
5. Return to the _Custom data_ screen and look at the _Metafield definitions_ section. We can define _Metafields_ that relate to various types of objects in Shopify, such as products, variants, customers, and orders. Click _Products_ to see what has been defined for _Product Metafields_.
6. _Product Metafields_ can be assigned to all products or to specific categories. If you click _Assigned to categories_, you can see some familiar _Metafields_, such as the _Throw pillow type_ and _Color_.
7. We are going to add a _Metafield_ that is assigned to all products and allows us to specify that a product is related to a specific tourist destination. Click _Add definition_.
8. For the _Name_, type _Related Location_.
9. A list of _standard definitions_ appears. Generally, it is best to choose a standard definition if one exists, as those are automatically configured for you and follow standards that allow them to be supported by apps, themes, and other parts of your store. In our case, though, we want to create our own, so click the first option.
10. The _Namespace and key_ will autopopulate and can be left as-is.
11. For the _Description_, type _Location (such as a tourist destination) to which the product relates_.
12. Click _Select type_.
13. Click _Single line text_ since we'll be using city and location names.
14. Select _List of values_ so that we can relate a single product to multiple locations.
15. We can specify various validations, including requiring that the location be selected from a predefined list. Set the _Minimum character count_ to 1.
16. Under options, we'll leave the _Storefronts access_ as-is, and turn on _Filter in product index_ and _Automated collections_. We'll explore more what these options do in future tutorials.
17. Click _Save_.
18. Now that we've created our first _product metafield_, let's try it out! Close the _Settings_ page by clicking the _X_ in the upper right-hand corner.
19. Click _Products_.
20. Click _London Pillow_.
21. Scroll down near the bottom of the page and you'll see a section labeled _Product metafields_. Your new field should be there! Type _London_.
22. Click _Add item_ and type _Victoria Tower (Big Ben)_ in the new field.
23. Click _Add item_ and type _Tower Bridge_ in the new field.
24. Click off of the field and you'll see the three values that you specified, appearing side by side. If you click those, you will be taken back to the editor pop-up where you can add, remove, reorder, and modify the values.
25. Click _Save_ to save the product.
26. Click _Products_ to return to the product list.
27. Click _NY Angel T-Shirt_.
28. Add _New York_ and _Central Park_ as related locations and save the product.

You've now created the _metafield_ and recorded some data, but we're not actually using it in any way. In another tutorial this week, we'll talk about _Collections_, and we'll see how we can use our new _metafield_ to create an _Automated Collection_.

By the way, regarding using Regular Expressions to validate metafield entries in Shopify, you can learn about Regular Expressions in general from [RexEgg](https://www.rexegg.com/). Please note that I am not certain if all regular expression features on that site are supported by Shopify, but many are and the site will give you an idea of what Regular Expressions do and how they work.
