---
layout: default
title: "2.4 Product Organization"
nav_order: 4
---

# 2.4 Product Organization

Shopify provides various ways to organize your products. In addition to the _metafields_ that we just talked about and the _collections_ that we will cover next, let's take a look at a few built-in organization-related data fields.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Products_ in the side menu.
3. Click _London Pillow_.
4. Find the _Product organization_ section in the right-hand column of the page.
5. Each of your products can have a single _[Product type](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/details/product-type)_. You might think of the _Product type_ as a custom category. Unlike a Shopify _Category_, which is selected from a predefined list and is used to add metafields and for various other purposes, the _Product type_ can be whatever you want and is used exclusively to help you organize your products. Type _pillow_.
6. The _Vendor_ field is useful for keeping track of where you get the product from. You can use this to filter the product list, which can speed up ordering inventory. Type _Pillows 'R' Us_ and then click _Add Pillows 'R' Us_ to add it to your list of vendors.
7. The _Collections_ field allows you to add the product to a manual collection, which we're going to explore in the next tutorial. Skip this one for now.
8. _Tags_ are searchable keywords that you want to associate with your product. They can help customers find your product when using the store search tool and can also be used to build automated collections, which we'll talk about in the next tutorial. Unlike the _Category_ and _Product type_, you can specify multiple tags for each product. [Shopify's help center provides some information about tag naming](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/details/tags). Instead of using the _Related Location_ metafield that we created before, we could have added tags of _London_, _Victoria Tower_, and _Tower Bridge_. Add _tourism_ and _souvenir_ as tags.
9. Save your changes.

Well, that's it for this tutorial, but before you move on to the next tutorial, spend a few minutes practicing what you've learned so far this week by opening the _Additional Products_ document provided in Brightspace and creating those products. You'll need to upload photos, specify categories, add vendors, product types, and tags. Once you're done, there's just two more tutorials left for the week!
