---
layout: default
title: "2.5 Product Collections"
---

# 2.5 Product Collections

In Shopify, you can use _[Collections](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/collections)_ to group, or categorize, your products. For example, you could create a collection of men's clothing and another of women's clothing, a collection of items that are on sale, or items of a specific type, such as lamps, cushions, or rugs. There are two types of collections that you can create:

- [_Automated collections_](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/collections/automated-collections) allow you to create a collection that will use product data, such as our new metafield, to automatically place items in the collection
- [_Manual collections_](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/products/collections/manual-shopify-collection) allow you to manually curate the products that appear in the collection

We're going to see how to create each of these!

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Products_ and then _Collections_ in the side menu.
3. Click _Create collection_.
4. For the _Title_, type _Photography_.
5. For the _Description_, type _Items depicting some of our favorite tourist destinations_.
6. Leave the _Collection type_ as _Manual_.
7. Click _Search products_ and type _NY_ then click on _NY Angel T-Shirt_ in the popup and click _Add_.
8. Repeat the process for the _London Pillow_.
9. Notice that you can specify an image for the collection, but we're going to skip that for now.
10. Click _Save_.
11. Click _View on your online store_ to check out the preview. You should see the two products!
12. So, that's how to create a manual collection. Next, let's create an automated one. Click _Collections_ in the side menu again and click _Create collection_.
13. For the _Title_, type _I ❤️ New York_ (type a heart emoji on Windows using Windows key + period or on Mac using Control + Command + Space).
14. For the _Description_, type _Show your love for New York City with these photographic products!_
15. For the _Collection type_, choose _Automated_.
16. Under _Conditions_, leave _Products must match_ as _all conditions_.
17. Click the first drop-down, which should say _Tag_ at first. This shows you all of the product fields that you can use to add conditions for the automated collection. At the bottom of the list, you should see our new metafield, _Related Location_. Click that.
18. Leave _is equal to_ and type _New York_ in the text box.
19. Click _Save_.
20. Click the _View_ button to preview the collection. You should see just the _NY Angel T-Shirt_.
21. Let's create one more automated collection. Click _Collections_ in the side menu again and click _Create collection_.
22. The _Title_ will be _Household Decor_.
23. The _Description_ will be _Decorate your house!_
24. For the _Collection type_, choose _Automated_.
25. Under _Conditions_, change _Products must match_ to _any condition_. This means that any product that matches any of the conditions that we specify will be included.
26. Click the first drop-down, which should say _Tag_ at first. Click _Type_, which is the _product type_.
27. Leave _is equal to_ and type _pillow_ in the text box (note that a drop-down will appear that you can use to save some keystrokes).
28. Click _Add another condition_.
29. Change the first drop-down to _Type_ again, leave the second as _is equal to_, and type _wreath_ in the text box.
30. Click _Save_ and then preview the category. You should see the London pillow and the wreaths that you added to your products!

One final note about collections: if you want to add a product that you are creating or editing to an existing manual collection, you can do so from the _Product organization_ section of the _Add Product_ or _Edit Product_ page.
