---
layout: default
title: "2.6 Bulk Editing Products"
---

# 2.6 Bulk Editing Products

Sometimes you may find yourself needing to modify several products. You can save yourself some time by using the _[Bulk Editor](https://help.shopify.com/en/manual/shopify-admin/productivity-tools/bulk-editing)_ in Shopify. For this tutorial, we're not actually going to make any changes. I encourage you to follow along on your own anyway.

1. Log into your _My Hobbies Shop_ admin area by going to [https://admin.shopify.com/].
2. Click _Products_ in the side menu.
3. At the top of the list of products, there is a _Search and Filter_ button. Click that to display a search box. Try searching for _wreath_.
4. After a pause, the list updates to just show the matching products.
5. Click the checkmarks next to the products that you want to edit. For example, I'm going to select all of the wreaths.
6. Click _Cancel_ and then _Search and Filter_ again.
7. Below the search box, there are a number of filter drop-downs. You can filter by vendor, tag, status, or you can add a different product field to use as the filter. Click _Add filter_ and then click _Product type_.
8. Check the _wreath_ box.
9. The list will update to show the wreaths. Check the box next to each product that you want to edit, or click the checkbox at the top to select all.
10. Click _Bulk edit_.
11. A table appears showing all of the products you have selected. At the top is a _Columns_ button.
12. Click _Columns_ and you can choose to add or remove columns. For example, select _Tags_ and _Compare-at_ price, then click _Columns_ again to dismiss the options.
13. You can click the individual cells to make changes, similar to Microsoft Excel. For example, I could change the compare-at price of each item by clicking in that column and typing the new numbers.
14. You can use the arrow keys to move around in the table.
15. Once you are done, you will click _Save_ at the top to save your changes and then you can click _Back_ to return to the product list.

Note that you can't adjust inventory in the bulk editor. We'll talk about managing inventory in a future lesson.
